.TH atrecal 1
.SH NAME
atrecal - Copy and recalibrate a CABB uv dataset.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
atrecal copies a uv dataset and recomputes the systemp and
xyphase variables from the autocorrelations.
Useful for CABB data with RFI affected Tsys or when splitting
wide bands. Invert uses the systemp variable for the data
weights when options=systemp is used.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The name of the input uv data sets. Several can be given (wild
cards are supported). No default.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
The normal uv selection commands. The default is copy everything
.TP
\fIline\fP
The normal uv linetype in the form:
.nf
  line,nchan,start,width,step
.fi
The default is all channels (or all wide channels if there are
no spectral channels). The output will consist of only spectral
or wideband data (but not both).
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
This gives extra processing options. Several options can be
given, each separated by commas. They may be abbreviated to the
minimum needed to avoid ambiguity. Possible options are:
.nf
   nocal       Do not apply the gains file. By default, atrecal
               applies the gains file in copying the data.
   nopass      Do not apply bandpass corrections. By default,
               atrecal corrects for the bandpass shape if the
               required information is available.
   nopol       Do not apply polarization corrections. By default
               atrecal corrects for polarization cross-talk.
   relax       Normally atrecal discards a correlation record if
               all the correlations are bad. This option causes
               atrecal to retain all records.
   spectrum    Store a tsys spectrum in addition to the normal
               systemp variable.
.TP
\fInaver\fP
.fi
The number of channels to average together to derive a point for
the tsys spectrum. Defaults to 1.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output uv data set. No default.
.SH REVISION
1.5, 2018/12/04 04:02:11 UTC
