.TH attsys 1
.SH NAME
attsys - Do various operations with Tsys values.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
ATTSYS can apply or remove the Tsys weighting from correlation
data, reapply Tsys based on a specified IF, or scale the
the Tsys values (leaving the data unchanged)
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The names of the input uv data sets. No default.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output uv data set. No default.
.TP
\fItsysif\fP
The IF numbers used to provide the Tsys correction values.
Multiple values can be specified, one for each spectral window.
E.g., 1,1,3,3 will overwrite the 2nd and 4th set of tsys values
with the 1st and 3rd. This parameter is only used with the redo
option. Default value is 1, which applies the tsys for the 1st
IF to all following IFs.
.TP
\fIfactor\fP
Scale factor to apply to the Tsys values recorded in the data.
This parameter is ignored except if options=scale.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Several options can be given,
separated by commas. Minimum match is supported. Possible values
are:
.nf
  apply     Apply the Tsys correction to the data. This is the
            default.
  unapply   Undo the Tsys correction in the data. Note that you
            cannot use the "apply" and "unapply" options
            simultaneously.
  auto      Use the "tcorr" variable to determine whether Tsys
            has been applied or not.
            NOTE: Information needed for options=auto is lost if
            you copy or split a dataset. If you are going to use
            options=auto, you generally have to do it on the file
            resulting from atlod.
  redo      Remove the existing Tsys correction from all IFs and
            reapply the Tsys from the IFs specified in tsysif.
            This can be used for certain CABB observations where
            the zoom bands have no valid Tsys information.
            This option cannot be combined with the previous ones.
  inverse   Apply the inverse correction for redo
  scale     Scale the existing tsys values by the value given by
            the parameter factor (leaves data unchanged)
  nocal     Do not apply the gains file.
  nopass    Do not apply bandpass corrections.
  nopol     Do not apply polarization corrections.
.fi
.sp
$Id: attsys.for,v 1.10 2018/12/04 04:02:11 wie017 Exp $
