.TH avmaths 1
.SH NAME
avmaths - Operate on cube with averaged plane from cube
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
nebk
.SH CATEGORIES
analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
AVMATHS averages designated planes from a cube, and then
performs some mathematical operation on the cube with the
averaged plane.  Subtraction, optical depth, replacement,
and multiplication operations have been coded.  Undefined
output pixels are blanked.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
The input image. Wild card expansion is supported. No default.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The output image. No default.
.TP
\fIregion\fP
Specify the channels to average with a REGION=IMAGE
command such as
.nf
  region=image(1,5),image(120,128)
.fi
This would average channels 1:5 and 120:128 from the
cube.  No other region commands are accepted for example
spatial sub-regions will be ignored.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Task enrichment options.  Minimum match is active.
.sp
"subtract"  OUT(i,j,k) = IN(i,j,k) - AV(i,j)
"odepth"    OUT(i,j,k) = ln(AV(i,j) / IN(i,j,k))
"replace"   OUT(i,j)   = AV(i,j)
"multiply"  OUT(i,j,k) = IN(i,j,k) * AV(i,j)
.sp
"noreduce" causes the output image to be of the same dimensions
.nf
    as the input image when REPLACEMENT is invoked.  By default,
    the REPLACED output image is reduced to two dimensions as
    there is probably no point to replicating one plane N times.
    In this case, the output third axis descriptors reflect the
    size of the bounding box of the selected region on the third
    axis
.fi
.sp
Pixels are blanked if the input pixel is blanked, the averaged
channel pixel is blanked, or the output is undefined.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.7, 2013/08/30 01:49:21 UTC
