.TH blcal 1
.SH NAME
blcal - Compute and apply baseline calibration.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
BLCAL computes and applies baseline-based calibration to a visibility
dataset.
.sp
This reads two datasets. It uses the first dataset to determine
baseline-based calibration, and applies these calibration corrections
to the second dataset.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
Normally, this gives the name of two visibility datasets, being
the "reference" and the "source" datasets respectively. The
reference dataset is used to determine the baseline calibration,
whereas the source contains the data that is corrected and written
out. If only a single dataset is given, then this is self-calibrated.
Baseline-based self-calibration is a very dubious operation, and
generally should not be performed.
.sp
Note: Both the reference and source datasets should be in time order.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
The normal uv selection commands -- see the help on "select" for
more information. This selection is applied to both the reference
and source input datasets.
.TP
\fIline\fP
The normal uv linetype in the form:
.nf
  line,nchan,start,width,step
.fi
See the help on "line" for more information.
The default is all channels (or all wide channels if there are no
spectral channels). The output will consist of only spectral or
wideband data (but not both).
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
Normal Stokes/polarisation processing. See the help on "stokes"
for more information. The default is to use the Stokes/polarisations
present in the dataset.
.TP
\fIinterval\fP
Solution time interval, in minutes. The default is a single solution.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output uv data set. No default.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Possible values are:
.nf
  nopassol  Determine a solution which is independent of channel number.
  nopolsol  Solve for parallel-hand polarisations only. When
            applying corrections, cross-hand correlations get corrected
            with a parallel-hand gain. In particular XY and YX are
            corrected with the mean of the XX and YY gains; RL and LR
            are corrected with the mean of RR and LL gains; Q,U, and V
            are corrected with the I gain.
  replace   Rather than writing the corrected dataset, write out a
            dataset where the data are replaced with the model of a
            unit point source with baseline errors.
