.TH calred 1
.SH NAME
calred - Analyse flux densities of sources with poor phase stability
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis, plotting
.SH DESCRIPTION
CALRED is a program used to analyse flux densities of sources
where phase stability is poor. It uses either the amplitude of
the data or an averaged triple product. Normally a point source
model is assumed, but if a planet is found in the input, CALRED
uses the model visibility for each baseline/channel to correct
the calculations.
.sp
CALRED produces a table with the following columns:
Sca (mJy) - the scalar average fluxdensity estimate, calculated
.nf
   as the rms of the visibility amplitudes
.fi
Vec (mJy) - the vector average fluxdensity estimate,
.nf
    not listed with options=triple
.fi
Tri (mJy) - the triple product fluxdensity estimate, this
.nf
   is the cube root of the real part of the average of
   V12*V23*conj(V13) (note that this can be negative).
   Only listed with options=triple.
.fi
Con - the confusion percentage, calculated from the ratio of the
.nf
   rms in the imaginary and real component of the triple ampl.
.fi
The - the theoretical noise in mJy
Act - the actual noise in mJy
NCorr - the number of correlations contributing
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The input visibility datasets. Several datasets can be given.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
Standard visibility selection. See help on "select" for more
information.
.TP
\fIline\fP
Standard visibility linetype. See the help "line" for more
information.
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
Normal Stokes/polaization selection. The default is to process
all parallel-hand polarisation.
.TP
\fIinterval\fP
Seperate estimates of the various parameters are determined for
data over an interval. This parameter gives the interval, in
minutes. The default is 5 minutes.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
.nf
  triple    Do triple processing.
  nocal     Do not perform gain calibration.
  nopol     Do not perform polarisation calibration on the data.
  nopass    Do not perform bandpass calibration on the data.
  norm      Divide the noise estimates by the square root of the
            number of points.
.fi
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.8, 2013/08/30 01:49:21 UTC
