.TH deproject 1
.SH NAME
deproject - deproject an image
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
pjt
.SH CATEGORIES
map analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
Given the center, major axis, and inclination of a galaxy,
create a deprojected image. Two optional parameters are provided
to allow for the output image's size and the galaxy's central
coordinate to be fixed.
Intensities are multiplied by cos(inc) to correct the surface
brightness, assuming we have a plane parallel optically thin
medium. See iflag= to control this behavior.
.sp
Caveat: image needs to have square pixels
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
Input data cube. No default.
.TP
\fIout\fP
Output data cube. No default.
.TP
\fIcenter\fP
Center of the polar coordinate system, in pixels where
(1,1) is the lower left point in a map.
By default the mapcenter will be taken.
By default the output map will preserve this as the reference
pixel, but see also ocenter= below.
.TP
\fIpa\fP
major axis position angle (degrees)
.TP
\fIinc\fP
inclination to be deprojected (degrees)
.TP
\fIosize\fP
Optional forced output size in X and Y. By default
size is choosen from ...
.TP
\fIocenter\fP
Optional output position for galaxy center. By default
the output center is the same as the input center
.TP
\fIiflux\fP
flag to attempt some manner of flux conversion
.nf
              [Integer: 0 = Don't bother (default)
                        1 = Sure why not ]
.TP
\fIinvert\fP
.fi
flag to invert the deprojection transformation
.nf
              (i.e. project image)
              [Integer: 0 >= Deproject image (default)
                       -1  = inverse transfomation (project image)]
