.TH ellplt 1
.SH NAME
ellplt - Plot points in elliptical annuli.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
image analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
ELLPLT plots the values of a Miriad image along ellipses.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
Input image name. No default.
.TP
\fIregion\fP
Region of image to be displayed. See the help on "region" for
more information.
.TP
\fIcenter\fP
The offset of the center of the annuli in arcsec (or natural
units if options=natural is used) offset from the reference
pixel.
.TP
\fIpa\fP
Position angle of ellipse major axis in degrees.  Default is 0
(north).
.TP
\fIincline\fP
The ellipse is assumed to be a circular structure that appears
elliptical because it is viewed at some inclination.  The
"incline" parameter gives this inclination angle in degrees.
Default=0. (face on)
.TP
\fIradius\fP
This gives one or two values, determining the radii of the major
axis of the annulus of interest. If one value is given, then
this is taken as the radius at the center of the annulus, and
the annulus is 5% wide.  If two values are given these are taken
as the inner and outer radii of the annulus.  The units are (by
default) arcsec, but can be natural units if options=natural is
used.  No default.
.TP
\fIrange\fP
Min and max greyscale values for the greyscale plot.  The
default is the image minimum and maximum.
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
Plotting device. See the help on "device" for more information.
The default is not to make a plot.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
Output log file. The default is not to make a log file.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Task enrichment options.  Minimum match is active.
.nf
  natural   Assume keywords "center" and "radius" are in natural
            units rather than arcsec.
.fi
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.6, 2014/05/21 04:34:59 UTC
