.TH fft 1
.SH NAME
fft - Fourier transform on image(s)
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
mchw
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis, map making
.SH DESCRIPTION
FFT is a MIRIAD task that performs a fast Fourier transform on
an image.  If the input is a cube, then each plane is FFT'ed
individually (i.e. this does not perform a 3D FFT).
.sp
Blanked pixels in the input images are treated as zeroes.
The input image dimensions will be padded to a power of two if
necessary.
.sp
The output of the FFT is normally complex-valued.  You can save
it in any one of several ways -- as the real or imaginary part,
or as the magnitude (amplitude) and phase.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIrin\fP
Input real image.  No default.
.TP
\fIiin\fP
Input imaginary image.  The default is a zero image.
.TP
\fIsign\fP
Sign of the exponent in the transform.  -1 gives a a forward
transform, +1 an inverse transform.  The inverse transform
applies 1/N scaling.  The default is a forward transform.
.TP
\fIcenter\fP
Origin of the transform.  If two values are given they are used
as the origin in the x and y axis respectively.  If one value is
given then it's used for the origin for both the x and y.  The
default is the header value for CRPIX1 and CRPIX2 or N/2+1 if
they are not present in the header.
.TP
\fIrout\fP
Output real image.  Default is not to write it
.TP
\fIiout\fP
Output imaginary image.  Default is not to write it.
.TP
\fImag\fP
Output amplitude image.  Default is not to write it.
.TP
\fIphase\fP
Output phase image.  Default is not to write it.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.8, 2018/12/05 23:36:20 UTC
