.TH flint 1
.SH NAME
flint - fortran source code verifier
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs pjt
.SH CATEGORIES
tools
.SH DESCRIPTION
Flint is a FORTRAN checker, producing warnings about non-standard,
possibly incorrect or poor FORTRAN code.
.sp
Flint takes a large number of flags, to attempt to keep the error
messages that it generates down to manageable proportions. The
command format is:
.sp
.nf
 flint [-acdfhjkrsux2?] [-I dir] [-o file] [-l] file ...
.fi
.sp
.nf
  a    make crude list of all variables used
  c    Allow comments and continuation lines to be interwoven.
       Normally flint flags this as an error.
  d    Do not insist that variables are always explicitly declared.
  f    Disable "line checks".
  h    Crude treatment of hollerith.
  k    Do not warn about COMMON block alignment problems.
  j    Do not check if a variable has been initialised.
  r    Do not warn about seemingly redundant variables.
  s    Load the definitions of specific functions and FORTRAN-IV
       standard function.
  u    Do not worry about unused variables.
  x    Allow names longer than 8 characters.
  2    Flint performs two passes.
  ?    Print a message describing the flags.
.fi
.sp
.nf
  o    Generate output file giving subroutine definitions only. The
       next command line argument gives the output file name.
  l    The following file is to be processed in "library mode". This
       means that the file is not echoed to flint.log, and that errors
       detected are to be ignored.
  I    add a directory to search for include files.
  i    Equivalent to "I".
.fi
.sp
Flint is NOT intended to replace compiler checks.  Flint is blind
to much bad code that any compiler will pick up. However you might
find flint's log file useful when doing initial source code corrections
after writing a piece of code.
