.TH gpcomb 1
.SH NAME
gpcomb - Combine multiple polarization calibration solutions.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
dpr
.SH CATEGORIES
calibration
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.nf
       GPCOMB combines the leakage tables and xyphase solutions from
       multiple calibrators. The routine is intended to be used when
       attempting high-precision circular polarization observations at
       the ATCA. Because leakages and xyphases are treated as invariant
       during circular polarization calibration, a more accurate
       calibration may be obtained by averaging several solutions from
       several "leakage calibrators".
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Notes:
.fi
.sp
.nf
       GPCOMB will probably be less useful for linear polarization
       observations, because linear polarization observations are
       usually limited by the xygain amplitudes, not the leakages
       or xyphases.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       If the calibration solutions you are comparing had the circular
       polarization zero-point determined from different observations
       of 1934-638 (eg. on different days), then there may be an
       xy-phase offset hidden in the bandpass, and so averaging the
       leakages and xyphases would probably be a bad idea. Maybe
       try using the same bandpass for both...
.fi
.sp
.nf
       And finally, if you have consistent systematic errors in your
       solutions (eg. you haven't used xyref,polref in gpcal), then no
       amount of averaging is going to help.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       References:
.fi
.sp
.nf
       For an overview of high-precision circular polarization
       calibration with the ATCA, see
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Rayner, "Circular Polarization User's Guide", ATNF Technical
       Document Series, 2000, 39.3/102,
       http://www.atnf.csiro.au/people/drayner/Publications/
       index.html#Circular_Polarization_Users_Guide
.fi
.sp
.nf
       For thorough treatment of the issues, see
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Sault, Hamaker and Bregman, "Understanding radio polarimetry
       II. Instrumental calibration of an interferometer array", A&AS,
       1996, v117, pp149-159.
       ftp://ftp.atnf.csiro.au/pub/people/rsault/papers/polar2.ps.gz
.fi
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
.nf
       The visibility data-set to which the average leakages and
       xyphases will be written. If omitted, the averaged
       leakage values are still reported to screen.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Existing calibration tables are not applied to vis ie. the
       resultant calibration and leakage tables in vis are REPLACED by
       those from the cals. This is what you would usually want to
       do. If not, apply the appropriate calibration first with uvaver.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       The corrected dataset does retain the original gain
       amplitude and the antenna-based component of the gain phase.
.TP
\fIcal\fP
       The data-sets containing the nominally correct polarization
       calibration. No default. May include vis.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
       Normal uv selection. Only antenna-based selection is supported.
       If an existing leakage/xyphase solution exists for a de-selected
       antenna in vis, the value will be preserved. Otherwise,
       it will be set to zero.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
       Task enrichment parameters. Several can be given,
       separated by commas. Minimum match is used.
         "noxy"     Do not solve for, or apply, the average XY phase.
         "nopol"    Do not solve for, or apply, average leakages.
