.TH gpdof 1
.SH NAME
gpdof - Compute Degrees-of-freedom for calibration solutions.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
dpr
.SH CATEGORIES
calibration
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.nf
       GPDOF estimates the likely error in a calibration solution, by
       calculating the errors in the "Degrees-of-Freedom" (dofs) of an
       interferometer. This is useful for calibration of high-precision
       circular polarization observations.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       What GPDOF does is to determine the average calibration solution
       of several input solutions. Then, assuming that this average
       solution is "ideal", GPDoF determines the error in each of the
       input calibration solutions, using the degrees-of-freedom
       notation. Finally, GPDoF calculates the std and standard error
       of the derived dofs, which you can use to estimate the errors in
       the Stokes V of a target observation.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       The input calibration solutions should have been processed using
       the method outlined in the "Circular Polarization User's Guide"
       (see References below). Obviously, the more calibrators you
       have, the more accurate the dof estimates will be.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Explanation:
.fi
.sp
.nf
       The degrees-of-freedom (dofs) are linear combinations of leakage
       (delta) or gain (gamma) errors. The advantages in the dofs over
       other measures of calibration consistency (eg. rms scatter in
       the leakages) is that the dofs actually describe how the
       calibration error would affect a target observation.  Thus, for
       the dofs delta-+, delta--, and gamma--, and equatorially-mounted
       antennas:
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Stokes V error = delta-+ * Stokes I +
                          delta-- * Stokes Q +
                            gamma-- * Stokes U
.fi
.sp
.nf
       For the ATCA, the parallactic angle \chi comes, in so it
       isn't quite so elegant:
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Stokes V error = delta-+ * I +
                         delta-- * ( Q.sin(2\chi) + U.cos(2\chi)) +
                           gamma-- * ( U.sin(2\chi) + Q.cos(2\chi))
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Note that these are the instantaneous calibration errors in
       a target source; for a synthesis observation, where \chi
       varies, the resultant error in the Stokes V image will be
       more complicated.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       GPDoF estimates the std and standard error in the dofs. These
       parameters be combined with the above equation for Stokes V
       Error to estimate the likely level of leakage errors in a target
       observation. If you are just using the solution from a single
       calibrator, calculate using the std. If you are going to use the
       average calibration solution (using GPComb), then calculate
       using the standard error.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       For each dof, GPDoF has an "error" estimate, which measures the
       variations in the calibration solutions which are NOT
       attributable to a dof. The physical significance of these
       quantities isn't even clear to the author. In general, however,
       if the "error" term is dominant, then un-dof-like errors are
       dominating the calibration eg. pure random errors, or bizzarro
       systematic errors. In this situation, the relationship between
       the dofs and the error in the target observation may break down.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Um, I did mention that there are actually seven dofs? GPDoF only
       computes the three which affect calibration of circular
       polarization.  There are some good reasons for this (some of the
       others can't easily be computed, or are time-variable), besides
       the obvious one that I'm too lazy.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Note that GPDoF is entirely ATCAcentric.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Note that the leakage errors derived from GPDoF are not the only
       errors in a circular polarization observation! See Equation 1 of
       Rayner et al, 2000. A task to estimate the effect of the dofs on
       a synthesis observation will hopefully become available
       soon. Actually, forget the "soon"...
.fi
.sp
.nf
       And finally, if you have consistent systematic errors in your
       solutions (eg. you haven't used xyref,polref in gpcal), then
       GPDoF will severely underestimate the leakage errors.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       References:
.fi
.sp
.nf
       For an explanation of degrees of freedom, see:
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Sault, R J, "The Hamaker-Bregman-Sault Measurement Equation",
       pp 657--699, in Syhthesis Imaging in Radio Astronomy II, 1999,
       eds. Taylor, Carilli,and Perley.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       or
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Sault, Hamaker and Bregman, "Understanding radio polarimetry II.
       Instrumental calibration of an interferometer array", 1996
       A&AS, v117, pp149-159.
       ftp://ftp.atnf.csiro.au/pub/people/rsault/papers/polar2.ps.gz
.fi
.sp
.nf
       For an overview of high-precision circular polarization
       calibration with the ATCA, see
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Rayner, "Circular Polarization User's Guide", ATNF Technical
       Document Series, 2000, 39.3/102,
       http://www.atnf.csiro.au/people/drayner/Publications/
       index.html#Circular_Polarization_Users_Guide
.fi
.sp
.nf
       For a summary of the ATCA circular polarization error budget,
       see Equation 1 of
.fi
.sp
.nf
       Rayner, Norris, Sault, "Radio circular polarization of active
       galaxies", 2000, v319, pp484-496
       http://www.atnf.csiro.au/people/drayner/Publications/mnr3854.pdf
.fi
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIcal\fP
.nf
       The data-sets containing the nominally correct polarization
       calibration. No default.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
       Normal uv selection. Only antenna-based selection is supported.
