.TH gpplt 1
.SH NAME
gpplt - Plot and list gain and polarization correction terms.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
calibration
.SH DESCRIPTION
GpPlt is a MIRIAD task which plots and lists antenna gain and
polarization terms. The plot for gains is against time. The
plot for polarization characteristics is against antenna number.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The name of the input data-set. This will normally be a visibility
data-set. No default.
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
The PGPLOT plotting device to use. The default is no plot.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
The log to give a listing of the gains and polarization terms. The
default is no log.
.TP
\fIyaxis\fP
This specifies what is to be plotted/listed. Several values can be
given, separated by commas. Minimum match is used:
.nf
  amp      Plot/list amplitudes. This is the default if the gains
           are being plotted/listed, and nothing else is requested.
  phase    Plot/list phases.
  real     Plot/list the real parts. This is the default if the
           polarization terms are being plotted/listed, and nothing
           else is requested.
  imag     Plot/list the imaginary parts.
.fi
If nothing is given, "amp" is assumed.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Thus gives some extra processing options. Several values can be
given, separated by commas. Minimum match us used.
.nf
  gains        Plot/list the gains vs time. This is the default if
               nothing else is requested.
  xygains      Plot/list the ratio of X gain to Y gain.
  xbyygain     Plot/list the product of X gain by Y gain.
  polarization Plot/list the leakages vs antenna number.
  2polarization Plot/list the second leakages vs antenna number.
  delays       Plot/list the delays vs time.
  speccor      Plot/list the spectral correction vs time.
  bandpass     Plot/list the bandpass shape vs frequency.
  dots         Plot things as dots (rather than chunky circles).
  dtime        Give time in days and fractions of a day. This is more
               useful for listing files which are to be passed into
               some other analysis or plotting tool.
  wrap         Don't unwrap phase plots
.TP
\fInxy\fP
.fi
Number of plots in the x and y directions. The default is 2,2.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
A subset of the normal uv-selection parameters. They are not
entirely consisently used. Antenna and time selection is supported
for gains. Time selection is supported for delay and spectral
correction. Antenna and frequency selection is supported for
bandpasses. The default is to select everything.
.TP
\fIyrange\fP
The min and max range along the y axis of the plots. By default
gpplt autoscales. If the ``yrange'' parameter is given, then this
range is used on ALL plots. So it may not make much sense to
plot different sorts of quantities (e.g. amplitude and phases)
when explicitly giving the plot range.
