.TH imcomb 1
.SH NAME
imcomb - Combine images
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
map combination
.SH DESCRIPTION
IMCOMB is a MIRIAD task that combines several images into one.
The images are weighted in the region of overlap to minimise
the rms noise.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
Name of the input image datasets. Several can be given.
Wildcards are supported. At least one must be given.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output dataset.
.TP
\fIrms\fP
The rms noise levels of each of the input images.  This is used
in weighting the images when combining them (and thus minimising
the noise level in any overlap region).  Only the relative
magnitude of the noise values are important.
.sp
The images are weighted as 1/rms**2 -- so if you wish the images
to have speific weights, compute them accordingly. For example
if you wish to weight two images by the ratios 4 to 1, use
.nf
  rms = 0.5,1
.fi
where 0.5 is 1/sqrt(4)
.sp
The default is to use the theoretical rms of the input images
found in the image header.  If this is missing, then the last
valid rms noise level found is used.  If no values are given,
and the first dataset does not contain the rms value in the
header, equal weights are used for all images.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options.  Several values can be given,
separated by a comma.  Minimum match of names is used.
Possible values are:
.nf
  nonormalise  Do not renormalise the output.  Normally the
               output is normalised to account for overlap
               regions.
  relax        Do not check that the coordinate systems are
               consistent.
  fqaver       If 3rd axis (assumed to be frequency) is a
               single plane, average the input images in
               frequency, instead of producing a cube
               containing all planes.
.fi
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.11, 2013/08/30 01:49:21 UTC
