.TH imframe 1
.SH NAME
imframe - Interchange axes of a cube and decrease/enlarge the frame
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
bpw
.SH CATEGORIES
map manipulation
.SH DESCRIPTION
IMFRAME takes any part of an input cube, rotates it over any
combination of 90 deg angles and writes the result anywhere in an
output cube. This works on any cube whose longest axis is less than
262144 pixels long.
Note that IMFRAME does not resample images, only whole-pixel
transformations are possible. See REGRID to resample/rotate in a more
arbitrary way.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
The input image. No default.
.TP
\fIregion\fP
Standard keyword region. See the help on "region" for more information.
.TP
\fIbox\fP
Some subcommands of the region keyword work only nicely on 3-d cubes.
This is too limited for imframe, so an alternative keyword is
provided for other cases, which is less fancy than region= but it
does the job.  The values to be given are a list of ranges for each
coordinate axis, in relative pixel coordinates, in the order
.nf
  xmin,xmax,ymin,ymax,...
.fi
etc. c  Note that this is different from the standard region order
xmin,ymin,xmax,ymax.
The default is to take the whole cube. box= and region= are mutually
exclusive.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The output image. No default.
.TP
\fIframe\fP
The size of the output dataset.  The values to be given are a list of
ranges for each coordinate axis in relative pixel coordinates, in the
order
.nf
  xmin,xmax,ymin,ymax,...
.fi
etc. Note that this is different from the standard region order
xmin,ymin,xmax,ymax. The defined frame may be bigger or smaller than
the input box. The values refer to the axes in the original ordering.
If not given, the input box is assumed (from either region= or box=,
whichever one was given).
.TP
\fIgoal\fP
The new axis ordering in terms of the old axis ordering: i.e. 'zxy'
makes the original 'z'-axis the 'x'-axis of the output. It is only
necessary to give the axes that are changed, the other axes are
concatenated to the list, i.e. 'z' would do just as well in the
example above. The default is not to exchange axes. Precede an
axisname with a - to reverse the direction.
