.TH imgen 1
.SH NAME
imgen - All-purpose image manipulator/creator
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
utility, map manipulation
.SH DESCRIPTION
IMGEN is a MIRIAD task that modifies an image, or creates a new
image.  See also maths to create images based on expressions
involving X, Y and Z.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
The input image, which is to be modified. The default is a map
with one plane which consists entirely of zeros.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output image.  The output image has the same
characteristics as the input image, if present.  If no input
image is given, the `imsize', `cell' and `radec' keywords give
the characteristics of the output.  No default.
.TP
\fIsource\fP
The name of a text file containing the source components, one
component per line for object = source.  The source components
are elliptical Gaussian components.  Each line consists of
six values:
.nf
  flux,dra,ddec,bmaj,bmin,bpa
.fi
where
.nf
  flux:          Total flux in Jy.
  dra,ddec:      Position offset from the phase center in
                 arcsec.
  bmaj,bmin,bpa: The full width to half maximum of the major and
                 minor axes, and the position angle of the major
                 axis measured from north to the east.  The
                 default half width is 0."0001.
.TP
\fIfactor\fP
.fi
Factor to multiply the input image by. This is meaningless if no
input image is given.  The default is 1.
.TP
\fIobject\fP
This determines the type of objects added to the input image.
Several objects can be given (of the same type or different).
Minimum match is supported.  Possible objects are:
.sp
.nf
   level      An offset (DC) level.
   noise      Noise (gaussian distribution).
   point      A point source.
   gaussian   An elliptical or circular gaussian.
   gauss3     3D elliptical or circular gaussian (for cubes).
   disk       An elliptical or circular disk.
   j1x        J1(x)/x function
   jet        Jet model with power law brightness.
   shell      2D projection of an optically-thin spherical shell
   comet      2D projection of a parent molecule in comet.
   cluster    standard isothermal 2D projection for cluster gas.
   source     Use "source" file of elliptical Gaussians, but
              must be the first object type specified.
.TP
\fIspar\fP
.fi
Parameters which give the characteristics of the object. The
parameters are given as a sequence of values, with one to six
values needed per object (depending on the object type). When
there are multiple objects, the parameter value for the second
object follow those for the first object, etc. The values are
as follows:
.nf
  Object Type           SPAR values
  -----------           -----------
   level                  offset
   noise                  rms
   point                  amp,x,y
   gaussian               amp,x,y,bmaj,bmin,pa
   gauss3                 amp,x,y,z,bmaj,bmin,pa,bz
   disk                   amp,x,y,bmaj,bmin,pa
   j1x                    amp,x,y,bmaj,bmin,pa
   jet                    amp,x,y,bmaj,bmin,pa
   shell                  amp,x,y,bmaj
   comet                  amp,x,y,scalelength
   cluster                amp,x,y,core radius
   source                 spar is completely ignored
.fi
.sp
Here "offset" is the offset level, "rms" is the rms value of the
noise, "amp" is the normally peak value of the object (but see
options=totflux below), "x" and "y" are the offset positions (in
arcsec) of the object relative to the reference pixel, "z" is
the absolute pixel position on the third axis, "bmaj" and "bmin"
are the major and minor axes FWHM (in arcsec), "pa" is the
position angle of the major axis (in deg), and "bz" is the FWHM
(in pixels) in the 3rd dimension.  The position angle is
measured from north towards east.
.sp
Comet scalelength, and cluster core radius are in arcsec units.
Jet model has brightness with power law index bmaj and bmin
along major and minor axes.
.sp
The default is an object of unit amplitude, at the reference
pixel, with a FWHM of 5 arcsec in x and y and 5 pixels in z.
.TP
\fIimsize\fP
If not input image is given, then this determines the size, in
pixels, of the output image. Either one or two numbers can be
given.  If only one number is given, then the output is square.
For testing purposes a third number can be given to create a
cube, no good coordinate headers however are written for such
cubes.  Default is 256 pixels square.
.TP
\fIcell\fP
The increment between pixels, in arcsec.  Only used if there is
no input map.  Default is 1 arcsec.
.TP
\fIradec\fP
If no input image is given, this gives the RA and DEC of the
image, in hours and degrees, respectively.  They can be given in
hh:mm:ss,dd:mm:ss, or as decimal hours and degrees. The default
is RA=0, DEC=30.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Several can be given, separated by
commas. Minimum match is used. Possible values are:
.nf
  totflux  Interpret the "amp" values in the spar keyword as
           total integrated flux densities (Normally the "amp"
           parameters are interpreted as peak values).
.TP
\fIseed\fP
.fi
Integer used to initialise the random number generator.  The
same value of SEED produces the same noise, different values
produce different noise.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.7, 2018/11/29 23:32:11 UTC
