.TH imhol 1
.SH NAME
imhol - Compute amplitude and phase images from real and imaginary
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
mchw
.SH CATEGORIES
image analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
IMHOL computes amplitude and phase images from real and
imaginary holographic images.  The amplitude image can be
debiased, and the phase image is computed as
atan2(imaginary/real).
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
Two values; the real and imaginary images, respectively.
The imaginary image can be made using INVERT with
options=imaginary.  If the (u,v) coordinates for the holography
data are in arcsec units then the images have units of nanosec
(the inverse of the usual situation for astronomical imaging).
Alternatively, the real and imaginary images can be obtained
from images of the beam pattern using the MIRIAD task FFT.  The
default units for the axes are in wavelengths.  Wild card
expansion is supported.
.TP
\fImag\fP
Up to two values; the output intensity image and
optionally, its associated error image (which will be constant).
Default is no output images.
.TP
\fIphase\fP
Up to two values; the output position angle image and
optionally, its associated error image (which will not be
constant).  These will be in degrees, radians or microns (see
'options').  Default is no output images.
.TP
\fIsigma\fP
The mean standard deviation of the noise in the images.
Required when debiasing or blanking; try to make it as accurate
a value as possible.  The default is 0.
.TP
\fIsncut\fP
This is the S/N ratio below which the output images
are blanked (see also options=zero below). It is STRONGLY
recommended that SNCUT of at least 2 is used.
The default is 0.
.TP
\fIpacut\fP
The output images are blanked if the error in the phase image
(degrees, radians or mircrons depending on OPTIONS) is greater
than this value.  This is active even if you don't output the PA
image.   Note that there is no equivalent for the output error
of the POLI image because the error is constant and equal to
SIGMA.  Keyword SNCUT essentially takes care of this.
The default is no position angle error based blanking.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Task enrichment options.  Minimum match is active.
.nf
  bias    If computing polarized intensity, do NOT remove the
          Ricean bias in the image.  By default, the bias is
          removed to first order with
            P = sqrt(P_obs**2 - sigma**2).
          You should have a very good reason for using this
          option.  See VLA memo no. 161 by Patrick Leahy for
          more details of bias removal.
  zero    When the output pixel is clipped, by setting CLIP(1),
          setting OPTIONS=ZERO will cause the output polarized
          intensity image (not the position angle image) pixel
          to be set to 0.0 rather than being masked out.  This
          is very important if you are interested in doing
          statistics on a region of low polarized intensity S/N
          ratio.  If you leave the region masked rather than
          zeroed, you will bias the statistics in that region --
          zero is a better estimate of the pixel than just
          excluding it from the statistics (provided the clip
          level is sufficiently small).  Residual bias in the
          statistical results from the area then depend upon how
          well the bias remover works and at what level clipping
          was performed.  See VLA memo no. 161 by Patrick Leahy.
  radians Output the phase image in radians instead of degrees.
  microns Output the phase image as equivalent surface error in
          microns.
  relax   Only warn about image axis descriptor mismatches
          instead of giving a fatal error
  bmfit   Fit focus and pointing offsets to aperture E-field
          maps.
.fi
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.5, 2013/08/30 01:49:21 UTC
