.TH imspect 1
.SH NAME
imspect - Make spectrum from a Miriad image.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
mchw
.SH CATEGORIES
image analysis and display.
.SH DESCRIPTION
IMSPECT makes an spectrum of the velocity or frequency axis of a
Miriad image.  The spectrum is integrated, or averaged over the
region specified for the other image axes.  The output spectrum
can be plotted and/or written out as an ascii file for further
analysis.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
The input image.  vxy and xyv images are acceptable inputs.
No default.
.TP
\fIregion\fP
Rectangular region of image to be averaged.  E.g.
.nf
  % imspect  region=relpix,box(-4,-4,5,5)(10,50) for an xyv
.fi
image, makes a spectrum of image planes 10 to 50 integrated
over the center 10 x 10 pixels in the x-y plane.  For a vxy
image where the x and y size is 128x128, the corresponding
region=box(10,61,50,70)(61,70).  Box refers image axes 1 and 2
for either vxy or xyv images.  The default is the entire image.
.TP
\fIxaxis\fP
The x-axis can be plotted as 'channel' or the units in the
image.  The default which is whatever units are in the header.
.TP
\fIyaxis\fP
If 'average' then the pixels enclosed in the x-y area specified
are averaged.  If 'sum' they are summed and normalized if the
units are known.  Default is 'average'
.TP
\fIyrange\fP
Y-axis range for plot.  The default is to self-scale.
.TP
\fIhann\fP
Hanning smoothing length (an odd integer < 15).  The default is
no smoothing (hann = 1).
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
List of minimum match task enrichment options.
1deriv  Take 1-sided derivative of spectrum before plotting and
.nf
        after Hanning smoothing.  Useful for Zeeman enthusiasts.
.fi
2deriv  Take 2-sided derivative of spectrum before plotting.
curve   Plot the spectrum joining up the dots instead of the
.nf
        default step-plot.
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
.fi
Standard PGPLOT device.  See the help on "device" for more
information.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
Write spectrum to this ascii file.  Default is no output file.
.TP
\fIcomment\fP
A one-line comment which is written into the logfile.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.7, 2015/05/12 00:05:35 UTC
