.TH imstore 1
.SH NAME
imstore - Write out image data in an ascii format.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
pjt
.SH CATEGORIES
map analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
IMSTORE is a Miriad task which dumps or tabulates a region of
an image in a format suitable for other programs.
Different output modes can be selected.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
The input file name. No default.
.TP
\fIregion\fP
The region of interest of the input. Default is the entire input.
Full region specifations are supported.
Note: 3D datacubes do not display their 3rd coordinate.
.TP
\fIclip\fP
Only image pixels above the clip value are written. The default
is all data.
.TP
\fIscale\fP
Scale factor with which the image data is multiplied
before output. The default is 1. Note this scaling is done before
the clip test (as described above).
.TP
\fImode\fP
Output mode. This determines the format of the output. Currently
accepted are: dump, uvgen and nemo. The default is dump.
.sp
mode=dump writes out the values of the selected pixel, only, with
there being 8 pixels per line.
.sp
mode=uvgen produces an output suitable for input to uvgen.
.nf
    FLUX,DRA,DDEC,WMAJ,WMIN,WPA,POLN,POLPA
.fi
where the last 5 parameters are set to 0.0. DRA and DDEC are
given in arcsec w.r.t. the reference pixel if the axis
type is a recognized astronomical one.
.sp
mode=nemo outputs in the format:
.nf
    DRA, DDEC, FLUX
.TP
\fIformat\fP
.fi
Override the default mode-dependant output format. Default: none.
Note: The format specification must be a legal fortran
format, including the parenthesis; e.g. ``format=(3F20.10)''
.TP
\fIunits\fP
Units of the output axes. Valid options are "absolute" and
"relative" (with respect to the reference pixel).
If an axis is a known astronomical coordinate system, the units
are displayed in arcsecs. The default is "relative".
.TP
\fIlog\fP
The output log file. The default is the terminal.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.5, 2013/08/30 01:49:21 UTC
