.TH imtab 1
.SH NAME
imtab - Tabulate image data
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
pjt
.SH CATEGORIES
map analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
IMTAB is a Miriad task which tabulates selected regions of
an image in a format suitable for programs like UVGEN.
Different output modes can be selected:
.sp
The UVGEN format outputs, in (8f10.4) format:
.nf
    FLUX,DRA,DDEC,WMAJ,WMIN,WPA,POLN,POLPA
.fi
where the last 5 parameters are set to 0.0. DRA and DDEC are
given in arcsec w.r.t. the reference pixel if the axis
type is a recognized astronomical one.
.sp
The NEMO format outputs, in (3g16.9) format:
.nf
    DRA, DDEC, FLUX
.fi
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
The input file name. No default.
.TP
\fIregion\fP
The region of interest of the input. Default is the entire input.
Full region specifations are supported.
* Note: 3D datacubes do not display their 3rd coordinate.
.TP
\fIclip\fP
Only tabulate scaled (see SCALE=) image data above the clip value.
Default: all data.
.TP
\fIscale\fP
Scale factor with which the image data is multiplied
before output and clip test (see CLIP=). Default:  1.0.
.TP
\fImode\fP
Output mode. Currently accepted are: uvgen, nemo.
Default: nemo.
.TP
\fIformat\fP
Override the default mode-dependant output format. Default: none.
Note: The format specification must be a legal fortran
format, including the parenthesis; e.g. ``format=(3F20.10)''
.TP
\fIunits\fP
Units of the output axes. Valid options are absolute and relative
(with respect to the reference pixel).
If an axis is a known astronomical coordinate system, the units are
displayed in arcsecs.
Default: relative.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
The output log file. The default is the terminal.
