.TH itemize 1
.SH NAME
itemize - List information about MIRIAD dataset(s)
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
pjt
.SH CATEGORIES
utility
.SH DESCRIPTION
ITEMIZE is a MIRIAD task which dumps a dataset or an item within a
dataset. If the input name is an item, then the contents of the
item (element for element) are written to the screen. If the input
name represents a dataset, then a summary of the items within the
dataset are given.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
The name of either a dataset, or an item within a data set or a
wildcard. For example:
.nf
  % itemize in=dataset
.fi
or
.nf
  % itemize in=dataset/item
.fi
or
.nf
  % itemize in='*'
.fi
For example, to show the history information of file ``cm'', use
.nf
  % itemize in=cm/history
.fi
When a dataset name is given, itemize summarizes the contents
of the entire dataset. When an item name is also given, then
itemize dumps the entire contents of the item (in accordance
to the index and format keywords).
.sp
Note that in ITEMIZE an "item" is one of the files in a MIRIAD
data set directory, for example the 'history' item, shown above.
To access the values of individual header items, use 'gethd'.
.sp
.TP
\fIlog\fP
The name of the output listing file. The default is the users
terminal.
.TP
\fIindex\fP
When dumping an entire item, "index" specifies the range of elements
to dump. The default is the entire item. For example, to print out
lines 10 through 20 of the history item, use:
.nf
  % itemize in=cm/history index=10,20
.TP
\fIformat\fP
.fi
When dumping an entire item, this gives the FORTRAN format specifier
to be used. For example, when dumping a real item, you may set:
.nf
  format=8e15.7
.fi
The default varies according to the data type.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Several options can be given separated by
commas. Minimum match is honoured.
.nf
  nocompact  Normally itemize does not print blocks of identical lines.
             Instead it gives a message indicating the number of repetitions
             of a line. The "nocompact" option causes it to print the
             repetitions. This is useful if the output is being parsed
             by other software.
