.TH maxen 1
.SH NAME
maxen - Maximum Entropy deconvolution
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs mchw
.SH CATEGORIES
deconvolution
.SH DESCRIPTION
MAXEN is a MIRIAD task that performs a maximum entropy
deconvolution algorithm on a cube.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fImap\fP
The input dirty map, which should have units of Jy/beam.
No default.
.TP
\fIbeam\fP
The input dirty beam. No default
.TP
\fImodel\fP
An initial estimate of the deconvolved image.  For point
sources, giving a good initial model may help convergence.  In
principle, this only helps convergence, but should not affect
the final solution.  The model could be the output from a
previous run of MAXEN or any other deconvolution task.  It must
have flux units of Jy/pixel.  The default is a flat estimate,
with the correct flux.
.TP
\fIdefault\fP
The default image.  This is the image that the final solution
will tend towards.  The final result will be influenced by this
default if the constrains that the data put on the solution are
weak.  The default is a flat estimate, with the correct flux.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output map.  The units of the output will be
Jy/pixel.  It can be input to RESTOR, MAXEN (as a model, to
continue the deconvolution process), or to SELFCAL (for self-
calibrating visibility data).
.TP
\fIniters\fP
The maximum number of iterations. The default is 20.
.TP
\fIregion\fP
This specifies the region to be deconvolved.  See the User
Manual for instructions on how to specify this.  The default is
the largest centered region that it is safe to deconvolve.
.TP
\fImeasure\fP
The entropy measure to be used, either "gull" (-p*log(p/e)) or
"cornwell" (-log(cosh(p)) -- also called the maximum emptyness
criteria).
.TP
\fItol\fP
Tolerance of solution. There is no need to change this from the
default of 0.01.
.TP
\fIq\fP
An estimate of the number of points per beam. MAXEN can usually
come up with a pretty good, image dependent estimate.
.TP
\fIrms\fP
The rms noise, in Jy/beam, in the dirty map. No default. The
convergence and behavior of MAXEN depends strongly on the value
of this parameter.
.TP
\fIflux\fP
The flux of the source. If FLUX is given as a positive
number, then the resultant image is constrained to have this
flux. If FLUX is negative, then abs(FLUX) is used as an estimate
of the source flux only and the actual flux is allowed to vary.
If FLUX=0, then MAXEN makes a guess at the source flux.  Default
is FLUX=0, though you should give MAXEN more information if at
all possible.  On the other hand, a bad value here can cause
MAXEN to blow up.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Task enrichment parameters.  Several can be given, separated by
commas.  Minimum match is used. Possible values are:
.nf
  quiet      Do not give any messages during iterations.  The
             default is to give a one line message at each
             iteration.
  verbose    Give lots of messages during the iterations.  The
             default is to give a one line message at each
             iteration.
  asym       The beam is asymmetric.  By default MAXEN assumes
             the beam has 180 deg rotation symmetry, which is
             the norm for beams in radio-astronomy.
  pad        Double the beam size by padding it with zeros.
             This will give better stability if you are daring
             enough to deconvolve more than the inner quarter of
             the dirty image.
.fi
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.8, 2018/11/29 23:30:11 UTC
