.TH mirflag 1
.SH NAME
mirflag - Automated flagging of a UV data set.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
Emil Lenc
.SH CATEGORIES
calibration, uv-data
.SH DESCRIPTION
MIRFLAG is a MIRIAD task which allows automated
flagging of a UV data set. The task scans UV data
on a baseline-dependent and channel-dependent basis
to find bad data and flag them accordingly.

Four flagging modes may be specified via options amp,
rms, short and long.

Amplitude-based flagging is performed when the "amp"
option is supplied. On a per-baseline basis the median
amplitude for a designated "good" channel is determined
over the course of the observation, this is the
channel-median. An effective noise measure for the "good"
channel is made by taking the median of the absolute
difference between channel-median and the channel
amplitude throughout the course of the observation, this
is the channel-diff-median. The "badness" of an amplitude
measure in another channel is determined by how far it
deviates from the channel-median with respect to the
channel-diff-median and a user defined "cutoff" scaling.
This provides a number of threshold points:

.nf
     -2*thresh    -thresh    Median    +thresh   +2*thresh
.fi
<---------+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------->
.nf
 Probably | Possibly | Probably | Probably | Possibly | Probably 
   Bad    |   Bad    |    OK    |    OK    |   Bad    |   Bad
.fi

Where the threshold is defined as cutoff * channel-diff-median.
Visibilities marked as "Probably Bad" will be flagged
immediately. NOTE: To apply amplitude-based flagging
on small clusters visibilities marked as "Possibly Bad"
the "short" option must also be provided.

RMS-based flagging is performed when the "rms" option
is supplied. In this task the amplitude RMS is measured on a
per-baseline and per-scan basis for a designated "good" channel
(Note: a scan will be split up if the length of the scan
exceeds the value specified by the "gap" parameter). The median
of these RMS values is taken as a reference. If the RMS of
another channel (for a particular scan/baseline) exceeds the
reference RMS by more than a factor of "rmscut" then the entire
scan is flagged. 

Short cluster flagging, as specified with the short option,
flags short (+/- 60 s) sections around bad points.

Large cluster flagging, as specified with the long option,
searches for and flags larger clusters of bad points using
a running sum window with length specified by the "int"
parameter. The flagging threshold is specified with the
"thres" option.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The name of the input UV data set.  A visibility file name
must be supplied.  Only one file may be edited at a time.

.TP
\fIstokes\fP
Specifies which stokes parameter/polarization to read and
analyse (first value) and which polarizations to flag
(subsequent values). For example, one can read and analyse
rr and use the results to flag both rr and ll by specifying
stokes rr,rr,ll. Defaults to read Stokes I and to flag all
available polarizations.

.TP
\fIgap\fP
Used in conjunction with the "rms" option.
Time in seconds which defines a scan gap (source changes
also define scans). Defaults to 150 s.

.TP
\fIrmscut\fP
Used in conjunction with the "rms" option.
Factor by which the RFI-free channel's scan-by-scan rms is
to be multiplied and above which data is considered bad.
Defaults to 3.

.TP
\fIgoodch\fP
Number of a good (relatively RFI-free) channel to which the
other channels are to be compared. By default, mirflag will
attempt to find the channel with the lowest median noise.

.TP
\fIcutoff\fP
Used in conjunction with the "amp" option.
Multiples of median of difference to median in data, above
which data are suspicious. Will be multiplied by two to
obtain a threshold above which data are certainly bad.
Defaults to 7.

.TP
\fIint\fP
Used in conjunction with the "long" option.
Width of running sum window in seconds in which to
calculate fraction of flagged visibilities.
1200 is reasonable for weak sources, 600 for calibrator
observations. Defaults to 1200.

.TP
\fIthres\fP
Used in conjunction with the "long" option.
Fraction of maximum of running sum, defines threshold above
which data are deemed bad in search for large clusters of
bad points. Defaults to 0.15.

.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Several can be given, separated by
commas. Possible values are:
.nf
  ignore  Ignore existing flags in data set, default is to
          read them.
  replace Replace existing flags in the data set with new
          ones, default is to add to existing flags.
  noapply Run only the analysis and provide a summary of the
          flagging but do not flag the data.
  amp     Switch on amplitude-based flagging (used in
          combination with the short option).
  rms     Switch on rms-based flagging.
  short   Flag short (+/- 60 s) sections around bad points.
          Without this option amplitude-based flagging is
          effectively turned off because amplitude-
          based flagging does not generate flags directly.
  long    Search for larger clusters of points.
  medsed  Subtract channel median to remove effects of a
          residual SED or poor bandpass calibration.
  medtcal Subtract bandpass median at each time-stamp to
          remove effects of poor secondary calibration.
.fi

.SH REVISION
mirflag version 0.1.2
