.TH mopfix 1
.SH NAME
mopfix - Recalculate (u,v,w) in a Mopra RPFITS file
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
tw
.SH CATEGORIES
analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
MOPFIX reads in an RPF file and a table of (t,RA,DEC) values
from RPFREAD.  The position table is interpolated onto the
spectral timestamps and a corrected RPFITS file is produced.
MOPFIX can also be used to resample in frequency (by spline
interpolation), flag data over a certain time range, and convert
BUNIT to 'K' (it does the last of these automatically).
.sp
Addendum Feb 9 2011 / ind006: Spoke with Tony Wong about the
purpose of this program in MOPS years. There appears to be no
practical reason why this should be used by any observers to
reduce their data from 2007 onwards. Originally, it changed
position timestamps in OTF mapping to correspond to the
spectral timestamps. Latency used to be too large for livedata
to handle this properly in one pass. This however was fixed
many years ago. The other functions as described above
might still potentially be beneficial hence this remains
included in miriad.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
Input RPFITS file.  No default.
.TP
\fIout\fP
Output RPFITS file.  Default name has 'ix' appended (i.e.
2004-06-24_2300.rpf --> 2004-06-24_2300.rpfix).  The program
will exit with an error if the output fil already exists.
.TP
\fIpostab\fP
Table of positions, default is pos.tab.  If the file does not
exist, the position correction is not done.  The table can be
created with RPFREAD using the posout= keyword.
.TP
\fImaxgap\fP
Maximum position jump in arcmin for interpolation.  If the
distance between the flanking position stamps exceeds this, the
spectrum is flagged.  Default: 1 arcmin.
.TP
\fIflagtime\fP
Up to four time ranges to flag spectra.  Give up to four pairs
of values in UT hh:mm:ss format separated by commas.  Default is
no flagging.  If a pair is in reverse time order, it is assumed
that the time range wraps around a UT day boundary.
.TP
\fIflagscan\fP
Up to four scan ranges to flag spectra.  Give up to four pairs
of values numbered starting from 1.  RPFREAD options=brief can
be used to list all the scans in a file (including offs and
paddles).  Default is no flagging.
.TP
\fIresample\fP
Factor (>0) to change the channel width by.  Total bandwidth is
approximately preserved while the number of channels changes (a
spline interpolation is performed).  Default is not to change
this.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options.
'keepflag'  Preserve online flagging.  By default all spectra
.nf
            are unflagged and only flagged based on maxgap
            above.
.fi
'doextrap'  Use linear extrapolation if gap between flanking
.nf
            position stamps exceeds maxgap.
.fi
'noref'     Eliminate the reference scans from the file.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.13, 2013/08/30 01:49:21 UTC
