.TH moscsdi 1
.SH NAME
moscsdi - Mosaic Complex Steer CLEAN algorithm
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
deconvolution
.SH DESCRIPTION
MOSCSDI is a MIRIAD task that performs a Complex Steer CLEAN on
mosaiced Q and U images or cubes. This follows the CSDI MIRIAD task,
but adapted for a mosaic, see the help for this task for more
information.
.sp
Full details of the algorithm are found in:
Pratley & Johnston-Hollitt, "An improved method for polarimetric
image restoration in interferometry", MNRAS, 2016. ArXiv: 1606.01482.
Please acknowledge this work in publications using the code.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fImap\fP
The input Q and U dirty map, which should have units of Jy/beam
No default.
.TP
\fIbeam\fP
The input dirty beam. No default
.TP
\fImodel\fP
An initial Q and U model of the deconvolved image.
The default is 0.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the Q and U output map.
The units of the output will be Jy/pixel.
.TP
\fIgain\fP
CLEAN loop gain. The default is 0.1.
.TP
\fIniters\fP
The maximum number of iterations. The default is 100.
.TP
\fIcutoff\fP
Iterating stops if the absolute maximum residual falls below
this level.  The default is 0. It is recommended that the
cutoff is 3 times the rms noise of Stokes Q or U.
.TP
\fIclip\fP
This sets the relative clip level.  Values are typically 0.75 to
0.9.  The default is 0.9.
.TP
\fIregion\fP
The standard region of interest keyword.  See the help on
"region" for more information. The default is the entire image.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.2, 2018/11/29 23:30:11 UTC
