.TH mosgen 1
.SH NAME
mosgen - Generate a mosaic file for the on-line system or for UVGEN.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
MOSGEN generates a file containing mosaic pointing centres.  The
output format may be chosen either for the ATCA on-line system
or UVGEN.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIradec\fP
RA and DEC of the centre of the mosaic in hh:mm:ss,dd:mm:ss
format, or decimal hours and degrees.  The default is 0,0.
.TP
\fIwidth\fP
Width of the field to mosaic, in degrees.  One or two values can
be given, being the width in RA and DEC.  Default is 0.1 deg.
.TP
\fIfreq\fP
The observing frequency, in GHz.  Default is 1.4 GHz.
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
Standard PGPLOT plotting device to display a diagram of the
pointing centres relative to the mosaic centre.  Default is not
to produce a plot.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
Output file listing the pointing centres.  Default is the
terminal.
.TP
\fIolay\fP
Output file listing the pointing centres in a form suitable for
display with the task cgdisp. If unset, no overlay is output.
.sp
.TP
\fImode\fP
Format of the output file:
.nf
  atmosaic  Mosaic file format understood by the ATCA on-line
            system.
.fi
.sp
.nf
            NOTE: The ATCA mosaic files produced by mosgen have
            the offsets referenced to the pointing in the lower
            left corner (earliest RA, least DEC value).  That
            is, it is not the centre of the mosaic given by the
            user.  The coordinate of the reference pointing is
            given as a comment in the head of the file.  The
            reason for the use of the lower left is to minimise
            drive times and to pixel the reference as the first
            point in the mosaic that rises. Note the ATCA on-
            line system has a limit of 2048 pointing centers.
.fi
.sp
.nf
  uvgen     Format required for UVGEN's "center" keyword.
.TP
\fItelescop\fP
.fi
Primary beam type.  Default is ATCA.
.TP
\fIname\fP
For mode=atmosaic, a name used to derive the pointing name.  For
example, using name=lmc, MOSGEN will generate pointing names of
lmc_1, lmc_2, etc.  The full name must be 9 characters or less.
.TP
\fIcycles\fP
For mode=atmosaic, the number of cycles spent on each pointing.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.6, 2012/01/30 00:37:52 UTC
