.TH mostess 1
.SH NAME
mostess - Maximum Entropy deconvolution for a mosaiced observation
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
deconvolution
.SH DESCRIPTION
MOSMANY performs a joint maximum entropy deconvolution of a
collection of dirty images from a mosaiced observation.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fImap\fP
The input dirty maps. No default.
.TP
\fIbeam\fP
The input dirty beams. No default.
.TP
\fIdefault\fP
Default image name. The default is a flat image.
.TP
\fImodel\fP
Name of the initial estimate. Default is a flat initial
estimate.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output map.
.TP
\fIniters\fP
The maximum number of iterations. The default is 30.
.TP
\fImeasure\fP
The entropy measure to be used, either "gull" (-p*log(p/e)) or
"cornwell" (-log(cosh(p)) -- also called the maximum emptiness
criteria).
.TP
\fItol\fP
Tolerance of solution. There is no need to change this from the
default of 0.01.
.TP
\fIq\fP
An estimate of the number of points per beam. MOSMEM can usually
come up with a good, image-dependent estimate.
.TP
\fIrmsfac\fP
MOSTESS knows the theoretical rms noise of the input dirty maps,
and will, by default, attempt to reduce the residuals to have an
rms of this amount.  If the true rms noise is different from the
theoretical, you may give the factor to multiply by to convert
from theoretical to true rms noise.
.sp
The theoretical rms will usually be an optimistic estimate of
the true noise level.  The true noise will be increased by
calibration errors, confusion, poorly understood distant
sidelobes, etc, so rmsfac will usually give some "fudge factor"
greater than 1.
.TP
\fIflux\fP
An estimate of the total flux of the source.  Giving a good
total flux will help MOSMEM find a good solution.  On the other
hand, giving a poor value may do harm.  Normally MOSMEM will NOT
constrain the total flux to be this value, but see the "doflux"
option below.  The default is image-dependent for measure=gull,
and zero for measure=cornwell.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Task enrichment parameters.  Several can be given, separated by
commas.  Minimum match is used.  Possible values are:
.nf
  doflux     Constraint the flux to be that given by the "flux"
             parameter.  Normally the "flux" parameter value is
             only used to determine the default image level.
  verbose    Give lots of messages during the iterations.  The
             default is to give a one line message at each
             iteration.
.fi
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.12, 2018/11/29 23:30:11 UTC
