.TH odnh3 1
.SH NAME
odnh3 - Ammonia analysis program
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
pjt
.SH CATEGORIES
map combination, map manipulation
.SH DESCRIPTION
ODNH3 is a MIRIAD task that creates optical depth and rotational
temperature maps from ammonia maps.  Ammonia J,K=(1,1) emission
has five hyperfine components, one main hyperfine component, two
inner hyperfine components, and two outer hyperfine components.
.sp
Odnh3 takes a main hyperfine component map and either an inner
or outer hyperfine component map and combines the two maps to
make a single main hyperfine component optical depth map.
.sp
Odnh3 can also combine a J,K=(1,1) main hyperfine component
map, a J,K=(2,2) main hyperfine component map, and a J,K=(1,1)
main hyperfine component optical depth map to create a
rotational temperature map.
.sp
Any of the input maps can be masked to allow a signal-to-noise
cutoff.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fImap1\fP
Input map, main hyperfine component map of the J,K=(1,1) level.
No default.
.TP
\fImap2\fP
Input map, depends on the option given (see "op" below).
No default.
.TP
\fImapt\fP
Input map required for op=temp.  mapt is the J,K=(1,1) main
hyperfine component optical depth map.  No default.
.TP
\fImask\fP
A mask expression using FORTRAN syntax.  The optical depth or
rotational temperature is only calculated at pixels where the
mask is TRUE.  Thus, this keyword can be used to enforce a
signal-to-noise cutoff on the input maps.  No default.
.TP
\fIregion\fP
Standard keyword region. See the help on "region" for more information.
.TP
\fIop\fP
The odnh3 option used:
.nf
  taui: inner hyperfine component map of the J,K=(1,1) level.
  tauo: outer hyperfine component map of the J,K=(1,1) level.
  temp: main  hyperfine component map of the J,K=(2,2) level.
.fi
No default.
.TP
\fIout\fP
Name of the output image.  No default.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.6, 2018/11/29 23:35:24 UTC
