.TH offaxis 1
.SH NAME
offaxis - Remove (or simulate) ATCA off-axis polarisation effects
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
OFFAXIS is a Miriad task that attempts to remove off-axis
instrumental polarisation from ATCA observations. As input,
OFFAXIS takes a visibility dataset and a model of the source
total intensity (Stokes I). Given this, it computes the expected
off-axis effects (given its internal models of the effects),
subtracts this from the data, and produces an output (nominally)
corrected dataset.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
Input visibility dataset. No default.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
Normal visibility selection parameter. The default is to
select all data. See the help on "select" for more information.
.TP
\fIline\fP
Normal line parameter with the normal defaults. See the help on
"line" for more information.
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
Stokes/polarisations to be processed.  The default is
XX,YY,XY,YX.  The only other legitimate value is I.
.TP
\fImodel\fP
Input model of the total intensity image.  This should be the
apparent total intensity (i.e. not corrected for primary beam
attenuation) in Jy/pixel.  No default.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output, corrected, visibility dataset.
No default.
.TP
\fIclip\fP
Pixels in the model less (in absolute value) than the clip level
are treated as if they are 0. The default is 0.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Task enrichment parameters. Several can be given, separated by
commas. Only the minimum number of characters to guarantee
uniqueness are needed. Possible options are:
.nf
  replace   Normally OFFAXIS subtracts the computed off-axis
            response from the data. This option causes the
            visibility to be replaced with the model.
  nocal     Do not apply any antenna gain calibration.
            The default is to apply these if they are available.
  nopol     Do not apply any polarization leakage correction.
            The default is to apply these if they are available.
  nopass    Do not apply bandpass calibration. The default is to
            apply these calibrations if they are available.
.fi
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.6, 2018/12/04 04:02:11 UTC
