.TH offpol 1
.SH NAME
offpol - Generate ATCA primary beam polarimetric response.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
utility
.SH DESCRIPTION
OFFPOL generates images of the primary beam response (both total
intensity and polarimetric) of the ATCA antennas.  It performs a
simple simulation of an observation.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIout\fP
Output name template.  No default.
.TP
\fIimsize\fP
Two values, the image size.  Second value defaults to first.
Default 255.
.TP
\fIcell\fP
Two values, the image cell size in RA and Dec, in arcsec.
Second value defaults to first.  Each defaults separately to
twice the primary beam FWHM divided by imsize.
.TP
\fIra\fP
Right ascension of the field centre.  (Used solely for setting
the output header, it has no effect on the computation.)
Default 0.
.TP
\fIdec\fP
Declination of the field centre.  Default -45 deg.
.TP
\fIharange\fP
Hour angle range to simulate - the start and end hour angles,
and the simulation step size.  The default is to simulate a
snapshot at 0 hours.  The default step size is 0.1 hours
(6 min) which might be inadequate for sources with a declination
near -30 deg.
.TP
\fIfreq\fP
Frequency of interest (GHz).  The default is 1.384 GHz.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Task enrichment parameters. Several can be given.
.nf
  raw      Generate images of the XX,YY,XY and YX responses,
           rather than the Stokes responses.
  subtract Subtract off the circularly symmetric portion of the
           primary beam response from I, XX and YY responses.
  new16    Use the measured patterns for 16cm, these have some
           obvious flaws but may give a better indication of the
           current instrumental polaristion
.fi
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.8, 2016/10/28 00:42:38 UTC
