.TH opplt 1
.SH NAME
opplt - Plot opacity and sky brightness.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
miscellaneous
.SH DESCRIPTION
Opplt plots model opacity and atmospheric brightness temperatures
given site information. These quantities can be plotted as a function
of frequency or elevation.
.sp
To plot as a function of frequency, give two values for the
freq key and one for the el key.
.sp
To plot as a function of elevation, give two values for the
el key and one for the freq key.
.sp
You must give two values for either freq or el.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIfreq\fP
Frequency range of interest, in GHz. One or two values can be given.
If two values are given, then the plot is as a function of frequency,
and the values are the limits for the plot.
The default is 22 GHz.
.TP
\fIel\fP
Elevation angle, in degrees. One or two values can be given.
If two values are given, then the plot is as a function of elevation,
and the values are the limits for the plot.
The default is 90 degrees (i.e. zenith).
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
Plot device. Default is not to plot anything.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
Output log file. The default is not to create one.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Currently there is only a single option.
.nf
  airmass  When plotting as a function of elevation, express the
           x-axis as cosec(elevation), which is also known as the
           airmass.
.TP
\fIt\fP
.fi
Temperature, in Kelvin. Default is 300.
.TP
\fIz\fP
Observatory altitude, in m. Default is 200 (i.e. the
altitude of Narrabri).
.TP
\fIp\fP
Sea-level atmospheric pressure, in hPa (i.e. millibars). The default
is 1013 hPa.
.TP
\fIh\fP
Relative humidity, as a percentage. The default is 20%.
.sp
