.TH pcsub 1
.SH NAME
pcsub - Subtract a plane (optional by polynomial fit) from a cube
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
pjt
.SH CATEGORIES
map combination
.SH DESCRIPTION
PCSUB (Polynomial Continuum Subtraction) is a MIRIAD task that
does a polynomial least squares fit to selected planes of a cube
to make a continuum map that can be subtracted from the input
cube.  Alternatively, if a continuum map is already known, this
can be subtracted.
.sp
Limitations:
.nf
 1) only designed for 3-D images
 2) the region input parameter should be specified only
    with the IMAGE command, e.g.,
.fi
.sp
.nf
    region=image(1,5),image(125,128)
.fi
.sp
.nf
    would average and subtract planes 1:5 and 125:128
    any specified x-y sub-regions will be ignored
 3) Blanked pixels in the image are only partially handled.
    If a plane is completely blank then it is ignored, however,
    a plane that is partially blanked is not dealt with.
 4) No fit to a polynomial greater than 10 is permitted.
.fi
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
The input image dataset. No default.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The output image.  For default see cont= keyword.
.TP
\fIorder\fP
The order of the highest term of the polynomial fit.
Default is 0, i.e. a constant.
.TP
\fIregion\fP
Specify the channels to fit with a command of the region of
interest format, e.g.
.nf
  region=image(1,5),image(120,128)
.fi
This would fit and subtract channels 1:5 and 120:128 from the
cube.  Note that blanked planes are correctly ignored, but
isolated blanked pixels in a plane are not.
.TP
\fIcont\fP
If "out" is provided, the continuum is generated from the region
(channels) selected.  This continuum (cont=) is subtracted from
each of the channels of the cube (in=) to yield an output cube
(out=).
If "out" alone is provided, this is all that occurs.
If "cont" is also provided, the continuum map is also written to
the file specified, if that file did not exist yet.
If "cont" did already exist, it is assumed to be the continuum
map, and subtracted from the input cube.
If "cont" alone is provided, ONLY the continuum map is written,
no output cube is written.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.5, 2013/08/30 01:49:21 UTC
