.TH plboot 1
.SH NAME
plboot - Set the flux scale of a visibility dataset given a planet obs.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
calibration
.SH DESCRIPTION
PlBoot is a MIRIAD program which corrects the flux scale in
visibility datasets. In doing this, it assumes that the flux
scale is out by a constant factor. PlBoot looks for observations
of planets, and given its model of the planetary visibility
function, it computes the factor needed to correct the dataset's
flux scale.
.sp
To fix the flux scale, PlBoot modifies calibration tables attached
to each dataset.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
Input visibility datasets. Several datasets can be given (wildcards
are supported). The datasets should include observations of a planet.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
Normal uv-selection parameter. This selects the data in the input
datasets to analyse. See the help on ``select'' for more information.
plboot will use any data that has a source name which it recognises
as a planet. You may wish to select just the shortest spacing, where
the planet is strongest.
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
PGPLOT device to plot the planet model data as well as the visibility
data. The default is to not produce a plot.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Several can be given, separated by commas.
.nf
  vector  Use the real part (rather than amplitude) of the data and
          model. This option should be used if the visibility data are
          phase calibrated
  noapply Do not apply the scale factor (just evaluate it).
  nofqav  When dealing with amplitude data, PLBOOT normally
          averaging in frequency first, to avoid noise
          biases. The nofqav disables this averaging.
