.TH plgeom 1
.SH NAME
plgeom - Fiddle planetary and solar system data.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
plgeom is a Miriad task used to manipulate and rephase
a visibility dataset so that an image formed from that
dataset will result in a facet of that point. It achieves
this by both applying a shift to the data, and manipulating
the u-v coordinates. The parameters used to compute noise
variance of a visibility are also manipulated to account for
poorer sensitivity when observing the facet at oblique angles.
.sp
See Sault, Engel and de Pater (Icarus 2004) for more details
of its faceting algorithm.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The name of the input uv datasets. Several can be given
Wildcards are supported. No default.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output uv data-set. There is no default name.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
The normal uv selection commands. The default is to select everything.
.TP
\fIlatlon\fP
The latitude and longitude of the facet centre. The latitude
is planetographic. For Jupiter, the longitude is System III.
.TP
\fItol\fP
When the fractional sensitivity of a modified visibility drops
below "tol" of the original measurement, then the visibility
is flagged. The default value is 0.1.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
This gives extra processing options. Several options can be given,
each separated by commas. They may be abbreviated to the minimum
needed to avoid ambiguity. Possible options are:
.nf
   nocal       Do not apply the gains table.
   nopass      Do not apply bandpass corrections.
   nopol       Do not apply polarization corrections.
