.TH psrbl 1
.SH NAME
psrbl - Subtract off-pulse uv baseline
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
dpr
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
PSRBL subtracts the off-pulse bins (the baseline) of visibilities
from the on-pulse bins of the visibilities, to remove continuum
sources.
.sp
Note: Although PSRBL does an excellent job of removing continuum
sources, it has the side-effect of scattering noise OUT OF the
off-pulse bins and INTO the on-pulse bins. For weak sources,
this can make plots made with PSRPLT, mode=amplitude look
artifically significant (or just plain strange). To moderate
this effect, always set the binsl key to cover all the available
off-pulse bins.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The name of the input uv data sets. Several can be given. No default.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
The normal uv selection commands. The default is copy everything.
See the help on "select" for more information.
.TP
\fIbinsl\fP
Bin selection to use for the baseline. This should consist
of comma-separated start/stop pairs, eg.
.nf
  binsl = 1,14,17,32
.fi
In this example, the pulsar is detected in bins 15 and 16,
so all other bins (1-14 and 17-32) are used for the baseline.
.sp
To select a single bin, use eg. 1,1
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output uv data set. No default.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Several can be given, separated by
commas. Minimum match is supported.
.nf
  nocal   This option suppresses antenna gain calibration. The
          default behaviour is to apply antenna calibration.
  nopol   This option suppresses polarisation calibration. The
          default behaviour is to apply polarisation calibration.
  nopass  This option suppresses bandpass calibration. The
          default behaviour is to apply bandpass calibration.
