.TH psrfix 1
.SH NAME
psrfix - Process and copy a pulsar dataset.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
PSRFIX performs de-dispersion, bin averaging/differencing and
ephemeris correction on an ATCA dataset observed in pulsar
bin mode.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The name of the input uv data sets. Several can be given. No default.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
The normal uv selection commands. The default is copy everything.
See the help on "select" for more information.
.TP
\fIdm\fP
This gives up to three numbers, being the pulsar dispersion
measure, the pulsar period (in seconds) and the frequency to
de-disperse to (in GHz). The default is a dispersion
measure of 0, and to de-disperse to the average
frequency of the first record. If de-dispersing, a pulsar period
must be given.
De-dispersion is done including fractional bin shifts.
.TP
\fIbinsl\fP
Bin selection input. It takes an input string of the form
.nf
               (1,2,4),(4,5,-6),(7,8)
.fi
The output will be three bins, the first will contain the
sum of the bins 1,2 and 4, the next will contain the sum
of 4 and 5 minus 6, and the last will contain the sum of
7 and 8. It is possible to have any combinations of bins.
However, the number of output bins must be less than or
equal to the number of input bins.
.sp
NOTE: This simply adds and differences multiple bins. It does
NOT perform any normalization of the result. For example, if
you sum three bins of equal value, you will get three times the
flux of each bin in the output
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output uv data set. No default.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Several can be given, separated by
commas. Minimum match is supported.
.nf
  nocal   This option suppresses antenna gain calibration. The
          default behaviour is to apply antenna calibration.
  nopol   This option suppresses polarisation calibration. The
          default behaviour is to apply polarisation calibration.
  nopass  This option suppresses bandpass calibration. The
          default behaviour is to apply bandpass calibration.
