.TH psrplt 1
.SH NAME
psrplt - Plot pulsar visibility data as a function of bin.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
PSRPLT plots pulsar visibility data as a function of bin number.
The normal display is a pulse profile (bin vs real part of the
average visibility), but it can also produce a plot against
frequency.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
Name of the input uv data sets.  Several can be given.
No default.
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
Stokes/polarisation parameters to plot.  Default is total
intensity (Stokes=i).
.TP
\fIline\fP
Line-type specification.  default is all channels.
See the help on "line" for more information.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
uv selection commands.  Default is to copy everything.
See the help on "select" for more information.
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
PGPLOT plotting device specification.  No default.
.TP
\fIoffset\fP
Offset (in arcsec) to shift the uv data.  The sign convention
is the same as the rest of Miriad.  Default is no shift.
See the help on "offset" for more information.
.TP
\fIaxis\fP
This determines the x- and y-axes of the plot.  At the moment,
the only possibility for the x-axis is:
.nf
  bin        Bin number.
.fi
Whereas the y-axis can be
.nf
  flux       Plot the flux value.  This is the default.
  frequency  Produce a bin vs frequency greyscale display.
  channel    Produce a bin vs channel greyscale display.
.TP
\fIrange\fP
.fi
The minimum and maximum range used for display. Defaults
to the range of values in the data.
.TP
\fImode\fP
This determines what "flux" quantity is plotted.  Possible
values are:
.nf
  real      Plot the real part of the data.  Default.
  imaginary Plot the imaginary part of the data.
  amplitude Plot the amplitude of the data.
  phase     Plot the phase of the data.
.TP
\fItitle\fP
.fi
Specify a title for the plot, default is the first file read
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options.  Several can be given, separated by
commas.  Minimum match is supported.
.nf
  nocal     This option suppresses antenna gain calibration.
            Default is to apply antenna calibration.
  nopol     This option suppresses polarisation calibration.
            Default is to apply polarisation calibration.
  nopass    This option suppresses bandpass calibration.  The
            default behaviour is to apply bandpass calibration.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
.fi
File in which to write the data, if y-axis is amplitude.
The default is no logfile.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.7, 2013/08/30 01:49:21 UTC
