.TH qvack 1
.SH NAME
qvack - Flag after change to observing setup
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
calibration
.SH DESCRIPTION
Qvack is a Miriad task to flag data for a number of integrations
near an observing setup change. For example, this is used to
flag data that is suspect because the instrument had not settled
correctly after the change in the setup. The visibility data are
should to be in time order.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
Input visibility data file. No default.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
Standard uv data selection. Default is to select all data.
.TP
\fIinterval\fP
This gives the time interval, in minutes, for which the data are
flagged after a setup change (or before a setup change, if its
value is negative).  The default is 0.1, which flags for
the first 6 seconds after a switch.
.TP
\fIforce\fP
The time interval, in minutes, which indicates the amount of time
that should ellapse before forcing a (virtual) setup change.
Thus you can QVACK on data that has distinct scans but no actual
change in observing setup.  Note that this means the first
INTERVAL amount of data is always flagged. The MODE option is
not needed, nor is it used if you set FORCE
Defaults to no forced setup change.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Currently only one exists:
.nf
  anticipate   Normally the interval given by the "interval" keyword
               is relative to the time of the first data found with
               a new setup. options=anticipate makes it relative
               to the time of the last data before a setup change
               occurs.
.TP
\fImode\fP
.fi
This determines what changes in setup cause flagging. Several
values can be given, separated by commas, and minimum match is used.
Possible values are:
.nf
  frequency    A change in the frequency setup. Do not use this
               option if Doppler tracking is used.
  source       A change in the source observed.
  mosaic       A change in the observing centre of a mosaiced
               observation.
