.TH rmclean 1
.SH NAME
rmclean - Run RM-CLEAN on a set of 'dirty' rm-cubes
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
ghh
.SH CATEGORIES
analysis.
.SH DESCRIPTION
RMCLEAN reads in dirty Q and U cubes, generates rmtf based on
the frequencies given in an ascii file, and cleans the rm
spectra following the algorithm given by Brentjens (2007).
The output cubes contain the clean model components, the
CLEANed rm spectra and the residuals.
The input cubes must be reordered with mode=312, and the
output cubes will have the same ordering and thus must be
reordered after being written to disk. A script (runrmclean.py)
is provided to put everything together into one step.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIinq\fP
Cube containing dirty Q spectra. No default.
.TP
\fIinu\fP
Cube containing dirty U spectra. No default.
.TP
\fIfreq\fP
Ascii file containing the observed frequencies. No default.
The file should contain one frequency per line, in Hertz.
Comment lines aren't allowed.
.TP
\fIweight\fP
Ascii file containing the weights. Default is equal weights.
The file should contain one weight per line, in the same
order as is given in the frequency file, and the same length.
Comment lines aren't allowed.
.TP
\fInmax\fP
Maximum number of iterations per pixel. Default 1000.
.TP
\fIgain\fP
CLEAN loop gain. Default 0.1.
.TP
\fIcutoff\fP
CLEAN cutoff (in P, without bias correction). Default 0.
.TP
\fIfwhm\fP
FWHM of restoring RM beam, in rad/m^2. Default 0==auto.
.TP
\fImethod\fP
Method for determining clean component locations. Choices are:
'peakp': Search P spectrum for largest value
'xcorr': Perform the cross-correlation of the RMTF and
.nf
         the P spectrum at each iteration, and find the
         location of the largest value in the amplitude
         of the cross-correlation spectrum.
.fi
The cross-correlation option is slower, but should be better,
especially in low signal-to-noise situations, and is default.
.TP
\fIoutq\fP
Output (CLEANed) Q cube. Default 'Qclean'.
.TP
\fIoutu\fP
Output (CLEANed) U cube. Default 'Uclean'.
.TP
\fImodq\fP
Model (CLEANed) Q cube. Default 'Qmodel'.
.TP
\fImodu\fP
Model (CLEANed) U cube. Default 'Umodel'.
.TP
\fIresq\fP
Residual Q cube. Default 'Qresid'.
.TP
\fIresu\fP
Residual U cube. Default 'Uresid'.
.TP
\fIni\fP
Number of CLEAN iterations per pixel. Default 'niters'.
.TP
\fIderot\fP
Derotate the spectrum? 0=no, 1=yes. Default 1.
.TP
\fIdebug\fP
Debug mode? 0=no, 1=yes. Default 0.
.sp
$Id: rmclean.for,v 1.3 2013/05/30 23:07:02 wie017 Exp $
