.TH rpgen 1
.SH NAME
rpgen - Generate an RPFITS file based on the input parameters
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
data transfer
.SH DESCRIPTION
RPGEN is a MIRIAD task which generates a file in RPFITS
format. An RPFITS file consists of a number of scans, each with
a complete header that describes the data following. RPGEN
currently supports writing multiple scans, but all scans will have
the same frequency setup. You can concatenate rpfits files to
generate more complex observations.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIout\fP
Name of the output RPFITS file. No default.
.TP
\fIsource\fP
List of source names, default='scp'
.TP
\fIradec\fP
List of phase centers corresponding to each source. Each center is
specified as a pair of numbers (ra and dec), specified in
hh:mm:ss,dd:mm:ss format, or as decimal hours and decimal
degrees. The default is 0,-90.
.TP
\fIscan\fP
List of scan integration times for each source, in minutes.
.TP
\fItime\fP
The start time of the observation, followed by the duration in h.
This is in the form
.nf
  yymmmdd.ddd,hh.h
.fi
or
.nf
  yymmmdd:hh:mm:ss.s,hh.h
.fi
The default is 08JAN01.0,1.0. A function of the start time
is also used as a seed for the random number generator.
The sources ares reused, with specified integration time, until
the start time + duration is reached.
.TP
\fIinttime\fP
The correlator integration time in seconds
.TP
\fIspwin\fP
Number of spectral windows, followed by a triple of
number of channels, frequency in GHz, bandwidth in GHz
for each spectral window
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
List of stokes parameters, default is xx,xy,yx,yy
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
cabb - interpret spwin to match CABB output (combine overlaps)
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.5, 2013/08/30 01:49:21 UTC
