.TH sfind 1
.SH NAME
sfind - Automatically or interactively find sources in images
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
amh
.SH CATEGORIES
plotting
.SH DESCRIPTION
SFIND has been updated to incorporate a new statistically
robust method for detecting source pixels, called FDR (which
stands for "False Discovery Rate"), as an alternative to
simple sigma-clipping, which formed the basis of the original
implementation. Details of the FDR method can be found in
Hopkins et al 2001, (astro-ph/0110570) and references
therein. The original implementation of sfind has been
preserved, and can be applied by specifying the option
"oldsfind".  In addition, when using SFIND in the new 'FDR'
mode, several new features are available. SFIND now provides the
option of outputing
.nf
  1: a 'normalised' image (options=normimg) created by
     subtracting a background and dividing by sigma (the
     standard deviation),
  2: a 'sigma' image (options=sigmaimg), created by sigma-
     clipping the normalised image at a user-specified sigma
     value,
  3: an 'fdr' image (options=fdrimg) created similarly to the
     sigma-image by clipping the normalised image at the FDR-
     defined threshold.
.fi
.sp
In 'FDR' mode (the default), no interactive source detection
is possible, as is the case with the original version.  Instead,
the detected sources are drawn from a distribution of pixels
with a robustly known chance of being falsely drawn from the
background, thus more reliably characterising the fraction of
expected false sources than is possible with a sigma-clipping
criterion.
The process of source detection and measurement is slightly
different in 'FDR' mode compared to the original SFIND
implementation (see below).  In 'FDR' mode, the following steps
are performed:
.nf
  1: The image is first normalised by estimating the background
     (mean) and standard deviation (sigma) for the whole image
     in uniformly distributed regions of size 'rmsbox' (a user
     input).  This is done by fitting a gaussian to the pixel
     histogram, (as is done in the task 'imsad') - if the fit is
     poor, an interative method is used instead.  With these
     values known, the image has the mean subtracted and is
     divided by sigma to create a normalised image.  This is the
     same as saying the normalised image has a gaussian mean of
     0 and sigma of 1.  The normalised image is output as a
     Miriad image called sfind.norm if 'options=normimg' is set.
     The rms noise measured over the image can also be output as
     sfind.rms if 'options=rmsimg' is set.
  2: From the normalised image a sigma-clipped image (called
     sfind.sig) may be output (if 'options=sigmaimg').  This is
     simply an image with pixel values set to 100 if the pixel
     value in the normalised image is greater than the user
     specified value of 'xrms,' or 0 otherwise.
  3: The FDR method is implemented using the normalised image.
     Each pixel is assigned a p-value, a probability that it was
     drawn from the background, and a cutoff p-value is
     established based on the percentage of false rejections
     (source pixels) that the user specifies with the parameter
     'alpha'.  If 'options=fdrimg' is set, this cutoff p-value
     threshold is used to create an 'fdr' image (called
     sfind.fdr) in the same way as the sigma image above is
     created.
  4: With the FDR cutoff threshold established, sources may now
     be detected and measured. Each pixel with a p-value lying
     *below* the cutoff p-value (i.e. a low chance of being
     drawn from the background) may be part of a source.  For
     each such 'FDR-detected' pixel, a hill-climbing routine
     finds a local peak from adjacent FDR-selected pixels.  This
     is then used as the starting point for a routine that
     selects contiguous monotonically decreasing adjacent pixels
     from the FDR-selected ones, and to which a 2-D elliptical
     gaussian is fit in the same way as the original SFIND (see
     below).  The same parameters are returned as in the
     original implementation, and the logfile has the same
     format (see below).
.fi
Also, in FDR mode 'option=auto' from the original implementation
is assumed automatically, regardless of user input. This means
the inputs for 'type,' 'range,' 'device' etc are not relevant
and are ignored.
.sp
In the original implementation, SFIND displays an image via a
contour plot or a pixel map representation on a PGPLOT device.
The user is then provided with the opportunity to interactively
flag sources as real or not (indicated by a Y or N flag in a
log file).
.sp
Source positions are calculated by an algorithm which searches
for pixels brighter than the surrounding 24 pixels and then bi-
parabolically fitting positions and flux densities.  Once a
source such as this is detected, SFIND checks to see whether it
is brighter than the user set multiple of the background rms.
If so, a 2D elliptical gaussian fit is performed (using the same
routine as IMFIT) and the source parameters are displayed on the
terminal (and written to a log file after user input to
determine a flag, Y or N, to attach). The source parameters are
(in order):
.sp
.nf
          Quantity                        Notes
       --------------                  -----------
.fi
Position                       RA and Dec. in standard Miriad
.nf
                               hms,dms format
.fi
Formal errors in RA and Dec.   (arcsec; treat judiciously)
Peak flux density              (mJy)
Formal error in peak flux      in mJy (generally not a good
density                        estimate of the true error)
Integrated flux density        (mJy)
Major and minor axes and       (arcseconds for axes, degrees for
.nf
                               PA)
.fi
position angle of source       Warning: these are not
.nf
                               deconvolved from the synthesized
                               beam
.fi
Local background rms (sigma)   (mJy) calculated from a Gaussian
.nf
                               fit to the pixel histogram, as
                               per imsad
.fi
rms of gaussian fit
.sp
.sp
Manipulation of the device colour lookup table is available
when you display with a pixel map representation.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
The input image.
.TP
\fItype\fP
Specifies the type of the image in the IN keyword. Minimum match
is supported.   Choose from:
.sp
"contour"   (contour plot)
"pixel"     (pixel map)
.sp
It is strongly suggested that pixel maps be used for source
finding, as contour plots may be deceiving.  Default is "pixel".
Ignored in 'FDR' mode (the default).
.sp
.TP
\fIregion\fP
Region of interest.  Choose only one spatial region (bounding
box only supported), but as many spectral regions (i.e.,
multiple IMAGE specifications) as you like.  If you display a
3-D image, the cursor options are activated after each sub-plot
(channel or group of channels; see CHAN below) is drawn.
Default is full image.
.TP
\fIxybin\fP
Upto 4 values.  These give the spatial increment and binning
size in pixels for the x and y axes to be applied to the
selected region.   If the binning size is not unity, it must be
equal to the increment.  For example, to bin up the image by 4
pixels in the x direction and to pick out every third pixel in
the y direction, set XYBIN=4,4,3,1.
Defaults are 1,XYBIN(1),XYBIN(1),XYBIN(3)
.TP
\fIchan\fP
2 values. The first is the channel increment, the second is
the number of channels to average, for each sub-plot.  Thus
CHAN=5,3  would average groups of 3 channels together, starting
5 channels apart such as: 1:3, 6:8, 11:13 ...   The channels
available are those designated by the REGION keyword.  A new
group of channels (sub-plot) is started if there is a
discontinuity in the REGION selected channels (such as
IMAGE(10,20),IMAGE(22,30).
.sp
Defaults are 1,1
.TP
\fIslev\fP
2 values.   First value is the type of contour level scale
factor.  "p" for percentage and "a" for absolute.   Second
value is the level to scale LEVS by.  Thus  SLEV=p,1  would
contour levels at LEVS * 1% of the image peak intensity.
Similarly, SLEV=a,1.4e-2   would contour levels at LEVS * 1.4E-2
Default is no additional scaling of LEVS.
Ignored in 'FDR' mode (the default).
.TP
\fIlevs\fP
Levels to contour for first image, are LEVS times SLEV
(either percentage of the image peak or absolute).
Defaults try to choose something sensible
Ignored in 'FDR' mode (the default).
.TP
\fIrange\fP
3 values. The pixel map range (background to foreground), and
transfer function type.  The transfer function type can be one
of "lin" (linear), "log" (logarithmic), "heq" (histogram equal-
ization), and "sqr" (square root).  See also OPTIONS=FIDDLE
which is in addition to the selections here.
.sp
Default is linear between the image minimum and maximum
If you wish to just give a transfer function type, set
range=0,0,heq   say.
Ignored in 'FDR' mode (the default).
.TP
\fIcutoff\fP
Flux density below which possible sources are ignored.
Default is zero.
Ignored in 'FDR' mode (the default).
.TP
\fIrmsbox\fP
In 'FDR' mode (the default) this is the size of the 'smoothing'
box used when estimating the background and standard deviation
of the image. It is suggested that this be several to many times
the beam size to prevent sources from artificially skewing the
background estimates. This may require some experimentation,
and 'options=normimg' may be useful in determining the
effectiveness of a particular rmsbox size.
.sp
In the original implementation (options=oldsfind), it is the
size (in pixels) of a box centred on each source within which
the background rms is calculated.  Only pixels outside the "beam
exclusion radius" (1.5 x BMAJ) are used in this calculation.
Default is 20 pixels.
.TP
\fIalpha\fP
This (real) number is the *percentage* of false *pixels* which
can be accepted when applying the FDR method.  Alpha determines
the threshold set in selecting pixels which belong to sources
(as an alternative to a simple sigma-cut), prior to the source-
fitting and measuring step.  Must be a positive number.
Default is 2.0 percent.  Ignored if options=oldsfind.
.TP
\fIxrms\fP
In 'FDR' mode (the default) this parameter defines the sigma-
cutoff for the creation of the image sfind.sig if
'options=sigmaimg' is set.  If not, it is ignored.  It has no
role in the detection or measurement of sources.  No default.
In the original implementation (options=oldsfind), it is the
multiple of the background rms value above which a source must
be before the user is given the choice of verifying it.
No default.
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
The PGPLOT plot device, such as plot.plt/ps. No default.
Ignored in 'FDR' mode (the default).
.TP
\fInxy\fP
Number of sub-plots in the x and y directions on the page.
Defaults choose something sensible
Ignored in 'FDR' mode (the default).
.TP
\fIlabtyp\fP
Two values.  The spatial label type of the x and y axes.
Minimum match is active.  Select from:
.sp
"hms"       the label is in H M S (e.g. for RA)
"dms"       the label is in D M S (e.g. for DEC)
"arcsec"    the label is in arcsecond offsets
"arcmin"    the label is in arcminute offsets
"absdeg"    the label is in degrees
"reldeg"    the label is in degree offsets
.nf
     The above assume the  pixel increment is in radians.
.fi
"abspix"    the label is in pixels
"relpix"    the label is in pixel offsets
"abskms"    the label is in Km/s
"relkms"    the label is in Km/s offsets
"absghz"    the label is in GHz
"relghz"    the label is in GHz offsets
"absnat"    the label is in linear coordinates as defined by
.nf
            the header.  You might call this the natural axis
            label.
.fi
"relnat"    the label is in offset natural coordinates
.sp
All offsets are from the reference pixel.
Defaults are "abspix", LABTYP(1) unless LABTYP(1)="hms"
whereupon LABTYP(2) defaults to "dms" (for RA and DEC).
Ignored in 'FDR' mode (the default).
.TP
\fIlogfile\fP
Log file name, default 'sfind.log'.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Task enrichment options.  Minimum match is active.
.sp
"fiddle" means enter a routine to allow you to interactively
.nf
  change the display lookup table.  You can cycle through b&w
  and colour displays, as well as alter the transfer function by
  the cursor location, or by selecting predefined transfer
  functions such as histogram equalization, logarithmic, &
  square root.
.fi
"wedge" means that if you are drawing a pixel map, also draw
.nf
  and label a wedge to the right of the plot, showing the map
  of intensity to colour
.fi
.sp
"3value"  means label each sub-plot with the appropriate value
.nf
  of the third axis (e.g. velocity or frequency for an xyv
  ordered cube, position for a vxy ordered cube).
.fi
"3pixel"  means label each sub-plot with the pixel value of the
.nf
  the third axis.   Both "3pixel" and "3value" can appear, and
  both will be written on the plot.  They are the average values
  when the third axis is binned up with CHAN.  If the third axis
  is not velocity or frequency, the units type for "3VALUE" will
  be chosen to be the complement of any like axis in the first
  two.  E.g., the cube is in vxy order and LABTYP=ABSKMS,ARCSEC
  the units for the "3VALUE" label will be arcsec.  If
  LABTYP=ABSKMS,HMS the "3VALUE" label will be DMS (if the third
  [y] axis is declination).
.fi
.sp
"grid" means draw a coordinate grid on the plot rather than just
.nf
  ticks.
.fi
.sp
"noerase"  Don't erase a snugly fitting rectangle into which the
.nf
 "3-axis" value string is written.
.fi
.sp
"unequal" means draw plots with unequal scales in x and y. The
.nf
 default is that the scales are equal.
.fi
.sp
"mark" When source has been found, and user has agreed that it
.nf
  is real, mark it with a cross.
.fi
.sp
"nofit" Prevents the program from fitting elliptical gaussians
.nf
  to each source.  The data given on each source will be that
  from a bi-parabolic fit, as per the earlier version of sfind.
  Note that flux densities from this fit are bi-parabolically
  fitted *peak* flux densities, and the positions are to the
  peak flux density position (which will always be within 1
  pixel of the brightest pixel in the source).  This option is
  useful for providing a starting point for groups of sources
  which the gaussian fitting procedure hasn't taken a liking to.
.fi
.sp
"asciiart" During the interactive section of the program, an
.nf
  ascii picture of each source is displayed, showing which
  pixels have been used in the gaussian fitting procedure.  The
  brightest pixel in the source is symbolised by a "O", the rest
  by asterisks.  This option is ignored if "nofit" is being
  used.
.fi
.sp
"auto" The interactive section of the program is bypassed, and
.nf
  all detected sources are flagged as real. The image is not
  displayed.
  This is set automatically in 'FDR' mode (the default) and it
  is only necessary to select it manually if using
  'options=oldsfind' (see below).
.fi
.sp
"negative" The map is inverted before source detection and
.nf
  fitting, i.e., positive pixels become negative and vice versa.
  This is to enable detection of negative sources without
  recourse to MATHS.  This feature may be used for detecting
  sources in polarisation maps.
.fi
.sp
"pbcorr" Corrects the flux density value calculated for each
.nf
  source for the effect of the primary beam attenuation.  This
  is dealt with correctly for mosaics as well as single
  pointings.
.fi
.sp
"oldsfind" Use this to run SFIND as the original implementation
.nf
  for the interactive interface, or just consistency with
  earlier measurements.
.fi
.sp
"fdrimage" An output image called sfind.fdr will be created
.nf
  with pixel values of 100, if their p-values are below the FDR
  threshold, or 0 otherwise.
  Ignored if 'oldsfind' is present.
.fi
.sp
"sigmaimg" An output image called sfind.sig will be created
.nf
  with pixel values of 100, if their sigma-values are above
  the user specified threshold from 'xrms,' or 0 otherwise.
  Ignored if 'oldsfind' is present.
.fi
.sp
"rmsimg" An output image called sfind.rms will be created
.nf
  where the pixel values correspond to the rms noise level
  calculated when normalising the image.
  Ignored if 'oldsfind' is present.
.fi
.sp
"normimg" An output image called sfind.norm will be created
.nf
  by subtracting a background mean from the input image and
  dividing by the standard deviation. The mean and sigma are
  calculated in regions of size 'rmsbox' tiled over the image.
  Ignored if 'oldsfind' is present.
.fi
.sp
"kvannot" As well as the regular log file (always written)
.nf
  create a kview format annotation file, called 'sfind.ann'
  containing one ellipse per object, with the appropriate
  location, size, and position angle.
.fi
.sp
"fdrpeak" The default for source measurement is to use only
.nf
  pixels above the FDR threshold in measuring the properties of
  sources. (This is analogous, in SExtractor, for example,
  to having the detect and analyse thresholds at the same
  level.) In some cases it may be desirable to allow fitting of
  sources where the peak pixel is above the FDR threshold, but
  other source pixels are not required to be. This is the case
  for obtaining reasonable measurements of sources close to the
  threshold. Selecting 'fdrpeak' allows this. If 'fdrpeak'
  is selected, source pixels are still required to be contiguous
  and monotonically decreasing from the peak pixel, but not
  necessarily to be above the FDR threshold.
.fi
.sp
"allpix" Rather than selecting pixels for the gaussian fitting
.nf
  by requiring they be monotonically decreasing away from the
  peak pixel, this option allows all FDR-selected pixels
  contiguous with the peak pixel to be fit for a source.
  If this option is selected, the fdrpeak option is ignored.
.fi
.sp
"psfsize" Restricts the minimum fitted size of a detected source
.nf
  to the size of the sythesised beam, i.e., the PSF.  Any source
  fitted to have a smaller size than this has its FWHM and PA
  set to those of the synthesised beam, and is refit for the
  position and amplitude only.
.fi
.sp
"bright" If your sources are too bright for the default format
.nf
  using this option will shift the decimal point right one digit
.fi
.sp
Some common combinations of options I have used (for examples):
options=kva,fdri,norm,sig
options=old,mark,ascii
options=old,auto
.TP
\fIcsize\fP
Two values.  Character sizes in units of the PGPLOT default
(which is ~ 1/40 of the view surface height) for the plot axis
labels and the velocity/channel labels.
Defaults choose something sensible.
Ignored in 'FDR' mode (the default).
.sp
Known Bugs:
In FDR mode the code has problems with very large images.  I
think this is dependent on the available memory of the machine
running Sfind, but need to do more testing to be certain.  I
have confirmed that on a machine with 256MB of memory and 256MB
swap space, an image of 3600x3600 pixels will be analysed
correctly.  For larger images, the code will halt
unceremoniously at the first call to memfree in subroutine fdr.
I don't understand why this happens, although I am guessing it
may have to do with the call to memfree trying to free more
memory than is available.
.sp
The output is designed to print source fluxes in FORTRAN format
f8.3 and f9.3 for peak and integrated flux densities
respectively.  This means that if your source's peak flux
is > 9999.999 mJy, (i.e. 10 Jy) or its integrated flux
is > 99999.999 mJy (i.e., 100 Jy), then it will not be
displayed properly. For people detecting very bright sources -
use options=bright to use f8.2 and f9.2 instead.
.sp
If 'options=fdrimg', 'sigmaimg', or 'normimg' are used with a
subregion of the image (specified by the 'region' keyword), the
output images are made the size of the *full* input image.  This
retains the original masking information, has zeroes outside the
regular bounding box of the selected region of interest, and the
relevant output within.  This does not affect the analysis
(which is all performed within the bounding box of the regular
region of interest), only the output images.
.sp
The following comments refer to the original SFIND
implementation.  The FDR implementation is much more robust to
finding faint sources close to bright sources, however since the
gaussian fitting process is the same, the comments about noise
or morphology are still relevant.
.sp
The gaussian fitting procedure can at times be temperamental.
If the source lies in a noisy region of the map, or close to
another bright source, or is simply of a morphology poorly
suited to being fit by gaussians, firstly the source may not be
detected at all, and if it is, the quoted errors on position and
flux density can be extremely high (often displayed in the
output as a row of asterisks due to the vagaries of FORTRAN).
.sp
In many of these cases, the given values of flux density and
position are still quite reasonable, (perhaps with errors an
order of magnitude larger than would otherwise be typical), but
user discretion is advised.  No responsibility is taken by the
programmer(s) for loss of life or property caused by taking the
results of this program under these conditions too seriously, or
by frustration generated by the use of this program under any
conditions.
.sp
Additionally, for unresolved sources, the "integrated" flux
density quoted may be less than the peak flux density.  (This
occurs if the fitted size of the source, proportional to
bmaj x bmin, is a smaller gaussian volume than that of the
beam.)  In this situation it is suggested that the peak flux
density be used.
.sp
Suggestions for believing in a source or not:
If a source is close to being indistinguishable by eye from the
background there are a few rules of thumb to help determine
whether the gaussian fit is telling the truth about a source, or
whether the source is even real.
1) If the pixels used in the fit are widely scattered (as
.nf
   opposed to comprising a nice contiguous group) the fit will
   probably not be very good and/or will not be a good
   description of the source.
.fi
2) Check the fwhms and the position angle, and compare it to the
.nf
   pixels used in the fit.  (Remember these values are in arcsec
   for the FWHM and degrees for the PA, while the ascii picture
   is in pixels).  If these obviously do not agree, then the fit
   was poor and the source is probably not real.
.fi
3) Check the rms of the background. If this is high then firstly
.nf
   the fit may not be good (as per 1), and secondly the source
   is in a noisy area and should be treated with caution anyway.
.fi
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.20, 2017/03/09 01:37:11 UTC
