.TH tmcvt 1
.SH NAME
tmcvt - Convert time-multiplexed polarization visibilities to Stokes.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
TMCVT converts time-multiplexed polarization observations to
Stokes parameters, applying any leakage correction in the process.
For an observation where polarizations are time multiplexed
(i.e. four polarization states are not simultaneously measured),
there is no simple way to convert between raw polarization
visibilities and Stokes parameters. This task operates by finding
the four polarizations measurements at a given instant which result in
the minimum time mismatch. It then uses this set in the conversion process.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The names of the input uv data sets. Wildcards are supported.
No default.
.TP
\fIline\fP
Standard line parameter, with standard defaults. See the help on
"line" for more information.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
Standard visibility data selection. See the help on "select" for
more information. The default is to select all data.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output uv data set. No default.
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
Several Stokes parameters of the output. Possible values are
i, q, u and v. There is no default - this parameter must be
specified.
.TP
\fIinterval\fP
Time interval tolerance, in minutes. This sets the maximum mismatch
between polarization correlations that can be tolerated. The default
is 10 minutes,
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Several options can be given,
separated by commas. Minimum match is supported.
.nf
  nopol     Do not apply polarization leakage correction.
  nocal     Do not apply antenna gain correction.
  nopass    Do not apply bandpass calibration correction.
  pseudo    By default, tmcvt generates a visibility stream where
            the error from time mismatches is minimized for each output
            Stokes visibility. This usually results with different
            Stokes visibilities for a given baseline having different
            time tags. The "pseudo" option causes tmcvt to generate an output
            dataset where all the Stokes visibilities for a given baseline
            are pseudo-simultaneous (same time tag). This results in larger
            errors, but may be more convenient if you must form an output
            image where the beams are the same for the different Stokes
            parameters, or where you are going to written out to a FITS
            file.
