.TH tmgen 1
.SH NAME
tmgen - Simulate a SMA polarimetric observation.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis, map making
.SH DESCRIPTION
tmgen forms a visibility dataset which has some of the characteristics
of an SMA polarimetric dataset. In particular it can optionally produce
time-multiplexed polarization products and two-part, Nasmyth-like leakages.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The input visibility dataset. No default. NOTE: For a number of the
steps performed by this task, the input visibility dataset must
have four simultaneous polarization correlations (e.g. XX, YY, XY, YX
or RR, LL, RL, LR).
.TP
\fIout\fP
The output visibility dataset. No default.
.TP
\fIpolar\fP
Polarization patterns for generating time shared polarization data.
Up to MAXPOLAR=100 strings of the characters R and L, or X and Y,
to represent the polarization of each antenna
R, L (right and left circular polarization), X and Y (linear
polarization).
E.g. for 3 antennas, the polar=LLL,LRR,RRL,RLR cycles
through all combinations of LCP and RCP for each baseline every
4 integrations. The default is to not subset the data based
on polarization.
.TP
\fIleakage\fP
Simulate polarimetric leakage. This parameter gives the leakage magnitude
as a percent. Random leakages with this rms value are generated and
applied to the data.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options.
.nf
  nasmyth   Add an extra rotation to the polarisations that would result
            from SMA-style Nasmyth receiver placement.
