.TH transfix 1
.SH NAME
transfix - Correct for leakage near transit of DEC ~ -30 sources.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
This corrects for polarisation leakage caused by errors in
the ATCA antenna orientation. The importance of this effect
goes inversely with the square of the difference of the source
declination from -30. It is most extreme at transit.
.sp
To run this task, you must have the pointing parameter file used
at the ATCA during your observation.
.sp
To first order, it is not too important whether this correction is
applied before or after gpcal is used, particularly for sources
very close to DEC=-30. Some experimentation might be helpful.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The name of the input uv data set. No default.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
The normal uv selection commands. The default is to select everything.
.TP
\fIline\fP
The normal uv linetype in the form:
.nf
  line,nchan,start,width,step
.fi
The default is all channels. Note that if there are multiple
spectral windows, the fitting process is performed on each window
separately.
.TP
\fIpparams\fP
Pointing parameter table. These tables are stored on the observing
machine at Narrabri in the file pparams.log.
The actively used version is:
/atomsexport/caobsonline/caobs_pparms/pparams.dat
Previous versions of the file are archived here:
/archive/backup/caobsonline/caobs_pparams/pparams.dat.yyyymmdd-hhmm
It is usually entered as an indirect parameter file.
The table consists of 6 lines (one per antenna),
each consisting of 12 numbers (the first number being the
antenna number).
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Task enrichment options. Possible values are
.nf
  replace  Replace the XY and YX correlations with an estimate
           of the error. This option is only meaningful for
           a polarisation-calibrated unpolarised dataset.
.fi
Additionally there are the standard options to turn off calibration:
.nf
  nocal    Do not apply antenna calibration.
  nopol    Do not apply leakage correction.
  nopass   Do no apply bandpass calibration.
.fi
.sp
.TP
\fIout\fP
The name of the output uv data-set. There is no default name.
