.TH tvdisp 1
.SH NAME
tvdisp - Display an image on a TV device
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
jm
.SH CATEGORIES
visual display
.SH DESCRIPTION
TVDISP is a MIRIAD task to display an image on a TV device.
TVDISP does not clear the screen before it initializes the TV;
see TVINIT for this function.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
Standard keyword in. See the help on "in" for more information.
.sp
.TP
\fIregion\fP
Standard keyword region. See the help on "region" for more information.
.sp
NOTE: This region only permits simple bounding boxes.
The default is to display the entire image.
.sp
.TP
\fIrange\fP
The minimum and maximum range used in scaling. The default is
to use the minimum and maximum values of the image.
.sp
.TP
\fItvchan\fP
The TV channel to display the image on.  This can be 1 to 3 on
the IVAS; 1 to 2 on the MXAS or XMTV servers.  The default is 1.
.sp
.TP
\fIincr\fP
Only every INCR'th pixel is displayed.  This can take from 1
to up to 3 values, giving the increment along the x, y, and z
axis, respectively. The default is chosen such that the selected
region of each image will fit on the screen.
.sp
.TP
\fItvcorn\fP
This gives the coordinate where the lower left corner of the
image is displayed.  The coordinate system typically runs from
1 to 1024 in x and y, the origin being in the lower left corner.
The default is to center the image on the screen.
.sp
.TP
\fIserver\fP
Standard keyword server. See the help on "server" for more information.
.sp
There is no default for the server.
.sp
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
These indicate extra operations that may be performed. One or
more can be given.  Possible values are:
.sp
.nf
  fiddle  Allow interactive modification of colour tables, zoom,
          etc.  NOTE: The Fiddle option currently only works
          with the IVAS servers!
  zoom    Zoom in on the displayed images.  NOTE: Zoom attempts
          to display the bounding box of all of the displayed
          images.  If more than one channel was loaded, then
          the zoomed display will be of the first channel.
  movie   Display the sequence of images as a movie.
          NOTE: Movie will attempt to zoom onto one image and
          then center the display step by step through each
          following image (and then return back to the first
          image to begin again).  The rate at which the images
          will change is a function of the cursor's X position.
          The further to the left of the display that the cursor
          is located, the faster the rate of change; the further
          right, the slower.  NOTE: some displays require a
          mouse button press to identify the cursor position.
          Functions to control the direction and style of motion
          are available if the panel is present.  If not, a
          subset of functions will be available to the four
          functions A - D (may also be keys F3 - F6).
