.TH uvaflag 1
.SH NAME
uvaflag - Use flags in one visibility dataset to flag another.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
calibration
.SH DESCRIPTION
UVAFLAG is a MIRIAD task which flags correlations in one
visibility dataset based on the flag status of matching
correlations in a template dataset.
.sp
The template dataset should be a subset of the visibility dataset
being flagged, and the order of records in the two datasets
should be the same. Normally correlations in the template and
visibility datasets are matched by comparing time, polarisation,
baseline, bin and frequency. However options `nopol',`nofreq'
and 'nobin' can turn off the matching of polarisation, frequency
and bin  number.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The input visibility file to be flagged. No default.
.TP
\fItvis\fP
The template input visibility file. The default is the same
as the `vis' dataset. This default makes no sense without the
`nopol' or `nofreq' options. Several files can be given.
Wildcards are supported.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
Normal visibility selection, which is applied to the template
dataset. See the help on "select" for more information.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Several can be given, separated by
commas.
Minimum match is supported. Possible values are:
.nf
  nopol  The polarisation of the records in the template are
         ignored. If any polarisation in the template is
         flagged, then all polarisations in the input are flagged
         This can be useful when applying flagging based on one
         polarisation type (e.g. stokes V) to the other
         polarisations.
  nofreq The frequency of the correlations in the template are
         ignored. If any channel in the template is flagged, then
         all channels in the input are flagged. This can be
         useful when applying flagging based on a `channel-0'
         dataset.
  nobin  The bin numbers of the correlations in the template are
         ignored. If any bin in the template is flagged, then
         all bins in the input are flagged. This can be useful
         when applying flagging based on a bin averaged dataset.
  freq   The first baseline of the template is read and the
         flags are applied to all times, baselines and bins
         in the input. This can be useful when applying spectral
         flags based on a small sample of data or time averaged
         data. Option freq implies nobin. It can be combined
         with nopol, but not with nofreq.
  noapply Do not apply the flagging, just report the statistics
         about what would be flagged.
.SH REVISION
1.6, 2018/12/04 04:02:11 UTC
