.TH uvaver 1
.SH NAME
uvaver - Copy and average a uv dataset.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
UVAVER copies a uv dataset, performing averaging, both in time
and/or frequency.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The name of the input uv data sets. Several can be given (wild
cards are supported). No default.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
The normal uv selection commands. The default is copy everything.
.TP
\fIline\fP
The normal uv linetype in the form:
.nf
  line,nchan,start,width,step
.fi
The default is all channels (or all wide channels if there are no
spectral channels). The output will consist of only spectral or
wideband data (but not both).
.TP
\fIref\fP
The normal reference linetype, in the form:
.nf
  line,start,width
.fi
The default is no reference line.
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
If a value is given, uvaver converts the input into the required
polarizations before writing to the output. Default is to copy
across the polarizations present in the input files.
.TP
\fIinterval\fP
Time averaging interval, in minutes. The default is 0 (i.e. no
averaging).
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
This gives extra processing options. Several options can be given,
each separated by commas. They may be abbreivated to the minimum
needed to avoid ambiguity. Possible options are:
.nf
   nocal       Do not apply the gains file. By default, UVAVER
               applies the gains file in copying the data.
   nopass      Do not apply bandpass corrections. By default,
               UVAVER corrects for the bandpass shape if the
               required information is available.
   nopol       Do not apply polarizatiopn corrections. By default
               UVAVER corrects for polarization corss-talk.
   relax       Normally UVAVER discards a correlation record if
               all the correlations are bad. This option causes
               UVAVER to retain all records.
   vector      Means do vector averaging.  This is the default.
   scalar      Means do scalar averaging for the amplitudes
               and vector averaging for the phase.
   scavec      Means do scalar averaging for the amplitudes of
               the  `parallel-hand' polarisations (i,xx,yy,rr,ll).
               Vector averaging is used for the amplitudes of
               the cross-hand visibilities (q,u,v,xy,yx,rl,lr)
               and for the phases for all visibilities.
.TP
\fIout\fP
.fi
The name of the output uv data set. No default.
