.TH uvcat 1
.SH NAME
uvcat - Catenate and copy uv datasets; Apply gains file, Select windows.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs mchw
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
UVCAT is a MIRIAD task which copies and catenates multiple MIRIAD
uv data sets. By default, UVCAT applies the gains file in copying the
data. The spectral windows copied to the output file can be selected.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The names of the input uv data sets. Multiple names can be given,
separated by commas. At least one name must be given.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
The normal uv selection commands. One unusual aspect of this is that
the "window" subcommand can be used to select which windows are
copied to the output file (normally the "window" only has an
effect for velocity line type). The default is to copy everything.
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
If a value is given, uvcat converts the input into the required
polarizations before writing to the output. Default is to copy
across the polarizations present in the input files.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
This gives extra processing options. Several options can be given,
each separated by commas. They may be abbreivated to the minimum
needed to avoid ambiguity. Possible options are:
.nf
   'nocal'       Do not apply the gains file. By default, UVCAT
                 applies the gains file in copying the data.
   'nopass'      Do not apply bandpass corrections. By default, UVCAT
                 applies bandpass corrections if possible.
   'nopol'       Do not apply polarization correction. By
                 default UVCAT corrects polarizations, if possible.
   'nowide'      Do not copy across wide-band channels.
   'nochannel'   Do not copy across spectral channels.
   'unflagged'   Copy only those records where there are some
                 unflagged visibilites.
.TP
\fIout\fP
.fi
The name of the output uv data set. No default.
