.TH uvdump 1
.SH NAME
uvdump - Generate an output text file of information from a visibility dataset.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
UVDUMP generates a text file containing information from a visibility
dataset. This information will usually be used as input to other
analysis outside Miriad.
.sp
For each data record selected, an line is produced in the output
text file. Each line can consist of several values.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The input UV dataset name. No default.
.TP
\fIvars\fP
The name of the values to be written. Possible names are the names
of visibility variables (with no additional processing), or some
of the following special names given below. Note these names cannot
be abbreviated.
.nf
  real      Real part of a correlation.
  imag      Imaginary part of a correlation.
  amp       Amplitude of a correlation.
  phase     Phase of a correlation, in degrees.
  flag      Data flag. This is 1 for good data and zero for bad data.
  variance  Theoretical variance of the real/imag parts.
  blno      Baseline number in the form xx-yy (character string).
  ant1      First antenna of the baseline.
  ant2      Second antenna of the baseline.
  polid     Polarization identifier (character string).
  dtime     Offset time, as a fraction of a day, relative to the date of
            first sample.
  tod       Time-of-day, as a day fraction.
  freq      Frequency of each channel, in GHz.
  uu        U coordinate of the first channel after any frequency averaging
            is performed. The units are in wavelengths.
  vv        V coordinate. See "uu" above.
  ww        W coordinate. See "uu" above.
.fi
Several names can be given, separated by commas.
.TP
\fIline\fP
This selects which channels to include. See the help on `line' for
more information. The default is to include all data.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
This selects the data to be processed, using the standard uvselect
format. Default is all data.
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
Normal stokes keyword. The default is to list the unconverted
polarisations.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
The list output file name. The default is the terminal.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
This controls what is listed, and the verbosity. Several can be
given, separated by commas. Minimum match is used. Possible values
are:
.nf
  flagged   Process flagged data only. By default only unflagged data
            are processed.
  all       Process all data. By default only unflagged data are processed.
  nofqav    Do not average the channels of each spectral to produce an average
            value. Note averaging affects the output for values:
            real,imag,amp,phase,flag,freq,variance,uu,vv,ww. Depending on
            the "flagged" and "all" options, either just the good, bad or all
            channels are used in the averaging.
  unwrap    Attempt to unwrap the phase (assumes consecutive data has the
            same wrap).
  space     By default values are separated by a comma. This option causes the
            values to be separated by a space instead.
.fi
The following control application of calibration corrections.
.nf
  nocal     Do not apply antenna gain calibration.
  nopol     Do not apply polarization leakage correction.
  nopass    Do not apply bandpass response correction.
