.TH uvgen 1
.SH NAME
uvgen - Compute visibilities for a model source.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis, map making
.SH DESCRIPTION
UVGEN is a MIRIAD task which computes visibility data for a
model source distribution at u-v data points specified by a set
of antenna positions, hour angle range and sample interval.  The
model is specified by a set of Gaussian sources with given
positions and flux densities.  Analytic expressions are used to
calculate the value of the visibilities.  The calculation
includes the response to polarized sources with linear and
circularly polarized feeds.  U-V trajectories for all pairs of
antennas are computed.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIsource\fP
The name of a text file containing the source components, one
component per line.  There is no default.  The source components
are elliptical Gaussian components.  Each line consists of at
least three and up to ten values:
.nf
  flux,dra,ddec,bmaj,bmin,bpa,iflux,ipa,vflux
.fi
where
.nf
  flux:          Total flux in Jy.
  dra,ddec:      Position offset from the phase center in
                 arcsec.
  bmaj,bmin,bpa: The full width to half maximum of the major and
                 minor axes, and the position angle of the major
                 axis measured from north to the east.  The
                 default half width is 0."0001.
  iflux,ipa:     The sources can be partially linearly
                 polarized.  This information is given as a
                 percentage polarization and position angle.
                 The default is 0.
  vflux:         Percentage circular polarization.  The default
                 is 0.
  alpha:         Spectral index. The default is 0.
.fi
The text file is free-format, with commas or blanks used to
separate the values.  Comments (starting with #) can be included
in the file.
.TP
\fIant\fP
The name of a text file containing the position of the antennas.
There is no default.  Each line of the text file gives three
values, being the x, y and z location of an antenna.  The
antenna positions can be given in either a right handed
equatorial system or as a local ground based coordinates
measured to the north, east and in elevation.  See the
"baseunit" parameter to specify the coordinate system.  Some
standard antenna configurations can be found in $MIRCAT/*.ant
for ATCA, BIMA and VLA telescopes.  The BIMA and VLA antenna
tables, use with baseunit=1, whereas for the ATCA, use
baseunit=-51.0204.
.sp
The text file is free-format, with commas or blanks used to
separate the values.  Comments (starting with #) can be included
in the file.
.TP
\fIbaseunit\fP
This specifies the coordinate system used in the antenna file.
A positive value for "baseunit" indicates an equatorial system,
whereas a negative value indicates a local system.  The
magnitude of "baseunit" gives the conversion factor between the
baseline units used in the antenna file, and nanoseconds.  The
default value is +1, which means that the antenna file gives the
antenna position in an equatorial system measured in nanosec.
E.g.    baseunit=-1 for topocentric coordinates in nanosec,
.nf
        baseunit=3.33564 for geocentric coordinates in metres.
.TP
\fItelescop\fP
.fi
This parameter determine the feed angle variation (i.e. the
parallactic angle plus the feed offset angle - evector).  It is
also used to set the name of the telescop variable in the output
dataset.  If can take two values, the first gives the antenna
mount type, and can be "altaz", "xyew", or "equatorial".  The
second value gives the feed offset angle ("evector") in degrees.
The default is 0.
.sp
Alternatively, you can give the name of a known telescope for
this parameter.  In this case, the mount type and feed offset
angle will be that of that particular telescope.
.sp
The default value is "hatcreek" (which is equivalent to
"altaz,0").
.TP
\fIcorr\fP
Defines the correlator setup.  The values are:
.nf
  nchan:       Number of channels in each spectral window.
               Use 0 for a wideband only file.
  nspect:      Number of spectral windows.  Default 1; max 4.
  f1,f2,...:   "nspect" values giving the offset for the center
               frequency of each window, in MHz.  Default 0.
  df1,df2,...: "nspect" values giving the total widths of each
               spectral window, in MHz.  Default 1000.
.fi
No checking is made for valid combinations.
Default is wideband only for each spectral window.
.TP
\fIspectra\fP
Model a Gaussian spectral line.
The spectral line model line consists of three values:
.nf
  famp:        The line to continuum ratio
  fcen:        Line freq (GHz)
  fwid:        Line width (GHz).
.fi
Default is no spectral line.
.TP
\fItime\fP
The time of the observation (corresponding to ha=0) in the form
.nf
  yymmmdd.ddd
.fi
or
.nf
  yymmmdd:hh:mm:ss.s
.fi
The default is 80JAN01.0.  A function of this is also used
as a seed for the random number generator.
.TP
\fIfreq\fP
Frequency and IF frequency in GHz.
Defaults are 100,0.0 GHz.
.TP
\fIradec\fP
Source right ascension and declination.  These can be given in
hh:mm:ss,dd:mm:ss format, or as decimal hours and decimal
degrees.  The default is 0,30.
.TP
\fIharange\fP
Hour Angle range (start,stop,step) in hours.  Default is
-6 hrs to + 6 hrs, with a sample interval=0.1 (6 minute)
.TP
\fIellim\fP
Elevation limit in degrees.  The default is not to limit
uv coverage by elevation.  If set, then hour angles below the
limit are not "observed".
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
This selects the polarization parameters formed.  Up to 4
polarizations can be formed in one run.  They can be 'i'
(default), 'xx', 'yy', 'xy', 'yx, 'lr', 'rl', 'rr' or 'll'.
For example:
.nf
  stokes=xx,yy,xy,yx
.fi
will form a file with the 4 polarisations corresponding to an
array with linear feeds.  For linear feeds the convention is
that the X feed has a position angle of 0, and the Y feed is
90 (measured north towards east).
.TP
\fIpolar\fP
Polarization patterns for generating time shared polarization
data.  Up to MAXPOLAR=20 strings of the characters R and L, or X
and Y, to represent the polarization of each antenna R (right
circular polarization), L (left circular polarization) X (linear
polarization PA=0), Y (linear polarization PA=90).  E.g. for 3
antennas, the polar=LLL,LRR,RRL,RLR cycles through all
combinations of LCP and RCP for each baseline every 4
integrations.  The default is to use the stokes keyword.
.TP
\fIleakage\fP
Polarization leakage errors, given as a percent.  This gives the
rms value of leakages of one polarisation feed into another.
Polarization leakage errors are constant over the observation.
To use this, you must set
.nf
  stokes=xx,yy,xy,yx
.fi
or
.nf
  stokes=rr,ll,rl,lr
.fi
The default is 0 (i.e. no polarization leakage).
.TP
\fIzeeman\fP
Zeeman effect; the keyword gives the product B * Z, where,
.nf
   Stokes V = B * Z * dI/dnu + Leakage * I
   B = line of sight field, and Z = Zeeman splitting term.
.fi
This generates a circular polarization for a spectral line.
Default = 0.
.TP
\fIlat\fP
Latitude of observatory, in degrees.  Default is 40 degrees.
.TP
\fIcycle\fP
This gives two values, being the time on-source, and the time
off-source cycle times, both in hours.  This allows simulation
of time segments lost while observing calibrators, etc.  For
example, if simulating an observation which observes the source
for 24 minutes and then is off-source (observing a calibrator)
for 6 minutes, use:
.nf
  cycle=0.4,0.1
.fi
Similarly, if simulating this calibrator, use:
.nf
  cycle=0.1,0.4
.fi
The default is harange(3),0 (i.e. do not interrupt the
observations).
.TP
\fIpbfwhm\fP
This dictates the primary beam model used in the simulation.  It
gives the FWHM of a gaussian primary beam, in arcsec.
The default is no primary beam attenuation.
.TP
\fIcenter\fP
Offset observing centers for a mosaiced observation, in arcsec
Two values (x and y offset) are required per pointing.  Several
values can be given.  Default is 0,0 (i.e. a plain, single
pointing observation).  The time spent on each pointing is given
by the value of "cycle(1)".  Note that the default value of
cycle(1) means that the observing center changes every
integration.
.TP
\fIgnoise\fP
Antenna based gain noise, given as a percentage.  This gives the
multiplicative gain variations, specified by the rms amplitude
to be added to the gain of each antenna at each sample interval.
The gain error stays constant over the period given by the
"cycle(1)" parameter (see above).  Thus "cycle(1)" can be varied
to give different atmosphere/instrument stabilities.  Note that
the default of the "cycle" parameter means that the gain changes
every integration.
.sp
A gain error can also be used to mimic random pointing errors
provided the source is a point source.
The default is 0 (i.e. no gain error).
.TP
\fIpnoise\fP
Antenna based phase noise, in degrees.  This gives the phase
noise, specified by the rms phase noise to be added to each
antenna.  Up to 4 values can be given to compute the phase noise
.nf
  pnoise(1) + pnoise(2)*(baseline)**pnoise(3)*sinel**pnoise(4)
.fi
where ``baseline'' is the baseline length in km.  Typical values
for pnoise(2) are 1mm rms pathlength (e.g. 2 radians at 100GHz),
For Kolmogorov turbulence pnoise(3)=5/6 for baseline < 100m
and 0.33 for baseline > 100m (outer scale of turbulence).
pnoise(4)=-0.5 for a thick turbulent screen, and -1 for a thin
layer.  See also the ``gnoise'' parameter.  Default is 0,0,0,0
(i.e. no phase error).
.TP
\fIsystemp\fP
System temperature used to compute additive random noise and
total power.  One or 3 values can be given; either the average
single sideband systemp including the atmosphere (TELEPAR gives
typical values), or the double sideband receiver temperature,
sky temperature, and zenith opacity, when systemp is computed
as:
.nf
  systemp = 2.*(Trx + Tsky*(1-exp(-tau/sinel)))*exp(tau/sinel)
.fi
where systemp, Trx and Tsky are in Kelvin.  Typical values for
Hat Creek Trx, Tsky, and tau are 75,290,0.15.  (OBSTAU gives
values for tau).  systemp is used to generate random Gaussian
noise to add to each data point.  Default is 0,0,0 (i.e. no
additive noise).
.TP
\fItpower\fP
Two values can be given to represent the total power variations
due to receiver instability (Trms), and atmospheric noise
(Tatm):
.nf
   tpower = Trms * systemp +  Tatm * pnoise
.fi
The receiver instablity is modeled as multiplicative Gaussian
noise.  The atmospheric noise is modeled to be correlated with
the antenna phase noise.  Typical values at 3mm wavelength are
Trms = 0.001 and Tatm = 0.2 K/radian (280 degrees/K).
Default is tpower=0,0
.TP
\fIjyperk\fP
The system sensitivity, in Jy/K.  Its value is given by
2*k/(eta * A) where k is Boltzmans constant (1.38e3 Jy m**2/K),
A is the physical area of each antenna (pi/4 * D**2), and eta is
an efficiency.  For the ATCA, D is 22 metres, and eta is
composed of a correlator efficiency (0.88) and an antenna
efficiency (0.65 at 6 cm).  The overall result is jyperk=12.7.
The default jyperk=150, a typical value for the Hat Creek 6.1m
antennas.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
A number of options can be specified, separated by commas.
.nf
  'leakfvar' Add linear variation of leakage parameters across
             each spectral window
  'delay'    Add delay noise instead of phase noise, i.e., make
             the phases vary with frequency
  'bandpass' Add a semi random bandpass function to the spectra
.TP
\fIout\fP
.fi
This gives the name of the output Miriad data file.  There is
no default.  If the dataset exists, visibilities are appended to
the dataset, with an appropriate informational message.
