.TH uvimage 1
.SH NAME
uvimage - Create a 3D image from uvdata
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
pjt
.SH CATEGORIES
image conversion, analysis.
.SH DESCRIPTION
UVIMAGE makes a Miriad image datacube of the uvdata in a
Channel - Baseline - Time order.
Missing Baselines are replaced with 0s,
Missing channels cause a fatal error.
Flagged data are shown as 0, even if underlying values are non-0
.sp
This program expects the data to be homogeneous.
.sp
Related tasks:
.nf
        TVFLAG - good for inspection and flagging, but
                 only works in 8bit displays
        UVAVER - use this to cut down the number of times
        VARMAP - image maps of uv-variables
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
.fi
The input uv-dataset name. No default.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
This selects which visibilities to be used. Default uses
all the data. See the Users Guide for information about
how to specify uv data selection.
e.g. 'select=ant(1)(5),-time(00:00,01:09)'
.TP
\fIline\fP
Linetype of the data in the format line,nchan,start,width,step
"line" can be `channel', `wide' or `velocity'.
Default is channel,0,1,1,1, which uses all the spectral
channels.
.sp
.TP
\fIview\fP
Visibility 'amplitude', 'phase', 'real', 'imaginary'
No calibration is applied by UVIMAGE.
Default: amplitude
.sp
.TP
\fIout\fP
Output image. If no output image give, the visibility
data will be scanned and a summary is given if there
are integrations with missing (or extra) baselines
and missing (or extra) channels.
Currently the image cube is poorly labeled as
CHANNEL, BASELINE, TIME with no real meaningful coordinates.
See mode= below for other orderings of axes.
.TP
\fImode\fP
This controls in what order the cube is written
1: CHANNEL-BASELINE-TIME (default)
2: TIME-CHANNEL-BASELINE
3: TIME-BASELINE-CHANNEL
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
time : make time axis linear, leaving gaps where there is no
.nf
  data, the default is to leave no gaps.
.fi
freq : make frequency axis instead of channel axis
.sp
.TP
\fIignore\fP
Should flags be ignored?  If true, the underlying data values
are shown, even if non-zero.
Default: false
