.TH uvlist 1
.SH NAME
uvlist - Print data, variables and other information from uv dataset
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
UVLIST produces various listing of a MIRIAD UV data file.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The input UV dataset name. No default.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
This controls what is listed, and the verbosity. Several can be
given, separated by commas. Minimum match is used. Possible values
are:
.nf
  brief     Short listing (default).
  full      The opposite of "brief".
  data      List correlation data. For brief listings, a maximum
            of 6 channels is printed.
  variables List uv variables.
  sigma     List the value and rms of the first data channel.
  spectral  List spectral and velocity information.
  array     List antenna and array information.
  source    List information about the source.
.fi
If no listing options are given, uvlist uses options=brief,data.
The following options determine the application of calibration
corrections to the data, for the data list options. The default
is to apply calibration corrections when they are available.
.nf
  nocal     Do not apply antenna gain corrections.
  nopol     Do not correct for polarisation leakage.
  nopass    Do not apply bandpass corrections.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
.fi
This selects the data to be processed, using the standard uvselect
format. Default is all data.
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
Normal stokes keyword. The default is to list the unconverted
polarisations. NOTE: When you set this parameter, the "Visibility
Number" printed in some listing may no longer be entirely accurate,
as there is not a correspondence a visibility listed and a visibility
in the data-set.
.TP
\fIline\fP
For options=data, this gives the normal uv linetype, with the normal
defaults. See the help on "line" for more information.
.TP
\fIrecnum\fP
The number of output records. This is used to cut off long outputs.
The default is either 1 or 20, depending on the options.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
The list output file name. The default is the terminal.
