.TH uvpit 1
.SH NAME
uvpit - Fit polarisation of a time-varying point source.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
UVPIT is a Miriad task which fits visibility data with a time
varying, polarised point source. Optionally the model or
residual visibilities can be written out.
.sp
This will work for datasets that contain either all four
linear polarisations, or just the parallel hands.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
Name of the input visibility file. No default.
.TP
\fIline\fP
Normal line-type processing with normal defaults. However, you
must select only a single channel!!
.TP
\fIselect\fP
Normal data selection. Default is all cross-correlation data.
.TP
\fIflux\fP
Initial estimates of the I,Q,U,V flux densities. The default is
1,0,0,0.
.TP
\fIoffset\fP
Initial estimates of the source offset, in arcsec. The default is
0,0.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The optional output data-set. The default is not to create an
output data-set. If an output dataset name is given, then
either the model or residual visibilities can be saved.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Several can be given, separated by commas.
Minimum match is used. Possible values are:
.nf
  noqu     Do not attempt to solve for Stokes-Q and U.
  nov      Do not attempt to solve for Stokes-V. The default is
           to attempt to solve for V if there are XY and YX
           correlations present.
  noshift  Fix the source position.
  constant The source does not vary with time. The default is
           to assume the source varies with time.
  residual The output data-set is the residual visibilities.
           If an output is being created, the default is to make
           this the fitted model.
.fi
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.6, 2013/08/30 01:49:21 UTC
