.TH uvputhd 1
.SH NAME
uvputhd - Allows user to alter values of header variables in uv dataset
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
lgm
.SH CATEGORIES
vis,uv,header
.SH DESCRIPTION
UVPUTHD allows the user to change the values of uv variables in a
uv dataset. All occurances of the variable are changed to the
new value. If the variable is an array, all new values must be
entered in sequential order. If the user desires to set all members
of an array to a single value, only one value need be entered.
Values can also be inserted from a time ordered table.
Note: PUTHD must be used to use the uv override principle, but
can only be used for single items, i.e. uv variables which are
not an array.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
Name of the input MIRIAD dataset. Only one dataset is allowed.
No default.
.TP
\fIhdvar\fP
Name of header variable to be changed. Refer to user manual or
run VARLIST to see the selection of allowed variable names.
No default.
.TP
\fItype\fP
Type of variable, either integer (i),real (r), double precision (d),
or ascii (a). Unused if variable already exists in the data file.
CAVEAT: Tables do not support ascii types yet.
No Default.
.TP
\fIlength\fP
Length of array of variable values. Unused if variable already
exists in data file or table is specified, else set to 1.
.TP
\fIvarval\fP
New values of header variable - if the variable is an array
all values must be specified or will assume one value for all.
If you want values that change with time, you must use the
table= keyword instead.
No default.
.TP
\fItable\fP
Name of the table that lists time (fractional days since time0) in
column 1, and the values of the array in columns 2 through LENGTH+1.
Values are simply inserted as soon as the time has passed, no
interpolation is performed (unless options=inter and the variable is
real or double precision)
CAVEAT: do not use array variables with tables, and type=ascii cannot
be used either.
No default.
.TP
\fItime0\fP
Offset time as applied to the times in column 1 of the table for
tabular input. Legal formats as defined in subroutine DAYJUL,
of which the ISO standard "ccyy-mm-dd[Thh[:mm[:ss.s]]]" is to
be preferred.
Default: not used, in which case the offset is 0, in which case
fractional days are really Julian Days.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
There is a single option
.nf
  inter - interpolate real and double precision values linearly
.TP
\fIout\fP
.fi
Name of the output dataset. No default.
.SH REVISION
1.7, 2018/12/04 04:02:11 UTC
