.TH uvsfit 1
.SH NAME
uvsfit - Fit point sources to a given vis file.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
dmcc
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
UVSFIT is a Miriad task which fits model components to a visibility
dataset. UVSFIT differs from UVFIT by fitting explicitly for the
frequency dependence of source flux. Optionally the model or
residual visibilities can be written out.
UVSFIT can only handle a limited number of visibilities in fitting
mode. You can reduce the data volume by averaging in frequency
using the line parameter (apply bandpass first) or selecting a
subset of the data. If you want to produce model or residual
visibilities at full resolution for all the data, you can
run UVSFIT again with all source parameters specified and fixed.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
Name of the input visibility file or files. No default.
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
Normal Stokes/polarisation parameter (e.g. i,q,u,v,ii etc).
Only a single polarisation can be requested. The default is
`ii' (i.e. Stokes-I for an unpolarised source).
.TP
\fIline\fP
Normal line-type processing with normal defaults.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
Normal data selection. Default is all cross-correlation data.
.TP
\fIobject\fP
This gives the object type that uvsfit fits for. Several objects
can be given (the objects can be of the same type, or different),
and minimum match is supported. Possible objects are
.nf
  point       A point source
  disk        An elliptical or circular disk.
  gaussian    An elliptical or circular gaussian.
  shell       The 2D projection of a thin, spherical shell.
  ring        A face-on, thin, elliptical or circular ring
.fi
For example, to fit for a point source and gaussian, use:
`object=point,gaussian'.
.TP
\fIspar\fP
.nf
 This gives initial estimates of source parameters.  For
 each object given by the `object' keyword, either 3 (for
 point sources) or 6 (for disks and gaussians) values should be
 given. The values are as follows:
   Object Type             SPAR values
   -----------             -----------
    point                   flux,x,y
    gaussian                flux,x,y,bmaj,bmin,pa
    disk                    flux,x,y,bmaj,bmin,pa
    shell                   flux,x,y,bmaj
    ring                    flux,x,y,bmaj,bmin,pa
.fi
.sp
.nf
 Here "flux" is the total flux density of the component,
 "x" and "y" are the offset positions (in arcsec) of the object
 relative to the observing center, "bmaj" and "bmin" are the major
 and minor axes FWHM (in arcsec), and "pa" is the position angle
 of an elliptical component (in degrees). The position angle is
 measured from north through east.
 You must give initial estimates for all parameters for each object
 (this includes parameters that are redundant or meaningless,
 such as "bmin" and "pa" for components that are constrained to be
 circular).
.fi
.sp
.nf
 The more complex the set of objects being fitted for, the more
 important it is to give a good estimate of the source parameters.
 Generally the estimates of the source position should be accurate
 to the fundamental resolution (for point sources) or the size of
 the component (for extended sources).
.TP
\fIfix\fP
 This gives a set a flag parameters, one parameter per source.
 Each parameter consists of a set of letters, which indicate
 which source parameters of a component are to be held fixed.
 These source parameters are fixed by the initial estimates
 given by the `spar' parameter.
 The letters corresponding to each source parameter are:
   f   The flux is fixed.
   x   The offset in RA is fixed.
   y   The offset in DEC is fixed.
   a   The major axis parameter is fixed.
   b   The minor axis parameter is fixed.
   p   The position angle parameter is fixed.
   c   The gaussian, disk or ring is circular (not elliptical).
 For a source where all source parameters vary, a dash (-)
 can be used for this parameter.
.fi
.sp
.nf
 For example "fix=fx,fc" indicates that the flux and RA offset
 is to be fixed for the first source, whereas the second source,
 (which is presumably a gaussian, disk or ring) has a fixed flux, and
 is circular.
.fi
.sp
.TP
\fIsspar\fP
.nf
 This gives initial estimates of source spectral parameters.  For
 each object given by the `object' keyword, 3  values should be
 given. The values, for all object types, are as follows:
              SSPAR values
              -----------
             alpha0,alpha1,alpha2
.fi
.sp
.nf
 Here "alpha0", "alpha1" and "alpha2" are defined in:
.fi
.sp
.nf
           lfr = ln(frq/frq0)
          alpha(frq) = alpha0 + lfr*(alpha1 + lfr*alpha2)
.fi
.sp
.nf
 giving the spectral index as a function of frequency so that
.fi
.sp
.nf
           flux(frq) = flux*(frq/frq0)**alpha(frq)
.fi
.sp
.nf
 gives the component flux at frequency frq. Here frq0 is the reference
 frequency. If alpha0, alpha1, alpha2 are not given, values of zero
.fi
are used.
If any sspar values are given, all (three per source) must be given.
.TP
\fIsfix\fP
.nf
 This gives a set a flag parameters for the spectral parameters,
 one parameter per source.  Each parameter consists of a set of
 digits, indicating which of the spectral terms are to be held fixed.
 These source parameters are fixed by the initial estimates
 given by the `sspar' parameter.
 The digits corresponding to each source parameter are:
   0   The spectral term alpha0 is fixed.
   1   The spectral term alpha1 is fixed.
   2   The spectral term alpha2 is fixed.
.fi
.sp
.nf
 For a source where all source parameters vary, a dash (-)
 can be used for this parameter.
.TP
\fIfreqref\fP
.fi
A frequency in GHz used as the reference frequency for the flux
and spectral index results.
.TP
\fIout\fP
Optionally, an output file will be written for each input file.
If given, the number of output data-sets should equal the number
of input visibility files, and either the model or residual
visibilities can be saved.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
.nf
 Extra processing options. Several can be given, separated by commas.
 Minimum match is used. Possible values are:
   residual The residual visibilities are written to the output.
            If an output is being created, the default is to make
            this the fitted model.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
.fi
Optionally, a log file will be written with the model parameters
and their errors.  For each fitted source, four lines are written
to the log: line 1 has source number, object type and three or six
parameter values, depending on the object type; line 2 has the
formal errors in each (0.0 if not a free parameter); line 3 has
the values of all three spectral terms; line 4 has the formal
errors in those terms (again 0.0 if not included in the fit).
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.7, 2018/04/03 21:38:22 UTC
