.TH uvspec 1
.SH NAME
uvspec - Plot averaged spectra of a visibility dataset.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
UVSPEC plots averaged spectra of a visibility dataset. Averaging can
be in both time and frequency
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The name of the input uv data sets. Several can be given (wild
cards are supported). No default.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
The normal uv selection commands. The default is plot everything.
.TP
\fIline\fP
The normal uv linetype in the form:
.nf
  line,nchan,start,width,step
.fi
The default is all channels (or all wide channels if there are no
spectral channels).
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
The Stokes/polarization types to be plotted. The default is to
plot those polarizations present in the input files. Note that
stokes=q,u is adopted when the X axis is RM or the Y axis is polang,
regardless of Stokes input given.
.TP
\fIinterval\fP
Time averaging interval, in minutes. The default is 0 (i.e. no
averaging).
.TP
\fIhann\fP
Hanning smoothing width (an odd integer).  Smoothing is
applied after averaging. Default is 1 (no Hanning smoothing).
.TP
\fIoffset\fP
An offset (in arcsec) to shift the data. Positive values result in
the data center being shifted to the North and East. Two values
should be given, being the shift in the RA and DEC directions.
The default is 0,0 (i.e. no shift).
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
This gives extra processing options. Several options can be given,
each separated by commas. They may be abbreviated to the minimum
needed to avoid ambiguity. Possible options are:
.nf
   'nocal'       Do not apply the gains file. By default, UVSPEC
                 applies the gains file in copying the data.
   'nopass'      Do not apply bandpass corrections. By default,
                 UVSPEC corrects for the bandpass shape if the
                 required information is available.
   'nopol'       Do not apply polarization corrections. By default
                 UVSPEC corrects for polarization corss-talk.
   'ampscalar'   When plotting amplitude, this causes it to perform
                 scalar averaging. By default it does vector averaging.
   'rms'         When plotting amplitude, this causes it to plot
                 the rms amplitude. By default it does vector averaging.
                 Ignored for xaxis=rm
   'mnoise'      When plotting noise, plot the error in the mean.
   'sdo'         Plot the difference between bin 2 and bin 1 (these
                 contain the CABB noise cal source on and off
                 autocorrelations, giving the Synchr. Detected Ouput)
                 Ignored for xaxis=rm
   'nobase'      Plot all the baselines on one plot.
   'avall'       Average all the baselines together before plotting.
   'dots'        Plot phases with dots instead of filled circles.
   'flagged'     Plot flagged data instead of unflagged data. The
                 default is to plot only unflagged data.
   'all'         Plot both flagged and unflagged data.
   'hdr'         Use high dynamic range scaling for amplitude plots:
                 log(1+amp). This works well for RFI affected data.
                 Ignored for xaxis=rm
   'timelog'     In any log file, output the time of the spectrum before
                 each spectrum is written out.
.TP
\fIaxis\fP
.fi
This gives two strings, which determine the X and Y axes of each plot.
The values can be abbreviated to uniqueness.
Possible values for the X axis are:
.nf
   channel       X-axis is channel number.
   frequency     X-axis is the sky frequency, in GHz.
   dfrequency    X-axis is the Doppler-corrected frequency, in GHz.
   velocity      X-axis is velocity in radio convention, in km/sec.
   felocity      X-axis is velocity in optical convention, in km/sec.
   lag           X-axis is lag number.
   rm            X-axis is Faraday depth, in rad/m^2. When this
                 is selected, the RMTF is plotted as a dashed line,
                 and +/-1 sigma are plotted as dot-dashed lines
   lambda2       X-axis is (wavelength)^2, in m^2.
.fi
Possible values for the Y axis are:
.nf
   amplitude     Plot amplitude.
   phase         Plot phase.
   real          Plot real part of the data.
   imaginary     Plot imaginary part of the data.
   noise         Plot the standard deviation of the data
   polang        Plot the polarisation angle of Q and U for the data
.fi
.sp
The default is axis=channel,amplitude.
If axis=rm is selected, the value input for the Y axis is ignored and
axis=rm,real is adopted.
.TP
\fIxrange\fP
The min and max range along the x axis of the plot. The default
is to autoscale.
.TP
\fIyrange\fP
The min and max range along the y axis of the plots. The default
is to autoscale.
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
PGPLOT plot device/type. No default.
.TP
\fInxy\fP
Number of plots in the x and y directions. The default is
determined from the number of antennae in the data-sets.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
Log file into which the spectra are dumped in the order in which
they are plotted.  Really only useful if your plot is quite simple.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.17, 2018/06/25 21:08:49 UTC
