.TH varplt 1
.SH NAME
varplt - Plot and list variables.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
rjs
.SH CATEGORIES
plotting
.SH DESCRIPTION
VarPlt is a MIRIAD task which plots and lists variables from a
uv file.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The name of the input data-set. No default.
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
The PGPLOT plotting device to use. The default is no plot.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
The log to give a listing of the variables. The default is no log.
.TP
\fIxaxis\fP
Variable to plot on the X axis. Default is "time".
.TP
\fIyaxis\fP
Variable to plot on the Y axis. No default.
.TP
\fInxy\fP
Number of plots in the x and y directions. The default varies.
.TP
\fIxrange\fP
The min and max range along the x axis of the plots. The default
is to autoscale. Note that for "time" should be given in normal Miriad
time format (either absolute time or time-of-day).
.TP
\fIyrange\fP
The min and max range along the y axis of the plots. The default
is to autoscale. Note that for "time" should be given in normal Miriad
time format (either absolute time or time-of-day).
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Extra processing options. Several can be given, separated by
commas. Minimum match is used.
.nf
  "dtime"    If the x-axis is "time", plot the time in fractions
             of a day. The default is to plot in hh:mm:ss.
  "compress" If the variable is a 2D array of values, average
             the variables along the second dimension.
  "overlay"  By default, when a variable takes on several values,
             each is plotted on a separate plot. The overlay
             option makes a single plot.
  "unwrap"   Unwrap the phases on the yaxis variable. Cannot unwrap
             an xaxis variable. By default phases are not unwrapped.
