.TH velimage 1
.SH NAME
velimage - Make (x,y,z) image from an (x,y) image and model z-values.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
mchw
.SH CATEGORIES
image analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
VELIMAGE is a MIRIAD task to make an (x,y,z) image from an (x,y)
image and a model for the z-values and dispersion.  The
z-values, for example the mean velocity, are input as an (x,y)
image, whilst the dispersion can be input as either an (x,y)
image or a fixed value.  The output image is formed as
.sp
.nf
   out(x,y,z) = in1(x,y) * exp(-(z-in2(x,y))**2/(2*sigma**2)))
.fi
.sp
VELIMAGE can be used to compare models with the data.  For
example one can generate a model image corresponding to a
rotating galaxy, convolve it with the actual beam and subtract
the model from the data to determine if there is residual
emission which deviates from the model rotation curve.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
The input image names, separated by commas.  The first image is
the (x,y) intensity distribution integrated over the z-axis,
e.g. velocity-integrated image.  The second image is an (x,y)
model for the z-values, e.g. a mean velocity image.  No default
for either.
A 3rd input image gives the z-dispersion at each point, e.g. a
velocity dispersion image.  If the 3rd image is not specified
then fixed dispersion, sigma must be specified.
.TP
\fIregion\fP
Region of image to be used.  See documentation on region for
details.  All pixels within the bounding box are used; pixel
masking is not used.  Default is the entire image.
.TP
\fIsigma\fP
Fixed value for z-dispersion if not specified by 3rd input
image.
.TP
\fInchan\fP
Number of channels for z-axis of output image.  Default=1.
.TP
\fIstart\fP
Starting value for z-axis of output image.  No default.
.TP
\fIstep\fP
Interval for z-axis of output image.  No default.
.TP
\fIout\fP
The output (x,y,z) image.  No default.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
Options.  Minimum match is active.
.nf
  relax  ignore axis descriptor mismatches
         (e.g. pixel increments etc).  Use with care.
.fi
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.7, 2017/12/11 22:26:28 UTC
