.TH velplot 1
.SH NAME
velplot - Interactively plot spectra and slices from Miriad Images.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
mchw
.SH CATEGORIES
image analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
VELPLOT is an interactive task to analyse spectra, position-
velocity slices, and integrated velocity maps from Miriad
images.  There are three basic display options:
.sp
.nf
 - Velocity-averaged (x,y) images over selected velocity
        intervals.  Also makes velocity and velocity dispersion
        images.
 - Spectra at selected (x,y) positions.  The data can be
        convolved in x, y or velocity.  Gaussian fitting
        routine.
 - Position-velocity maps along user selected position angles,
        or plots of intensity versus position for selected
        velocity channels.  The data can be convolved in the
        (x,y) plane.
.fi
.sp
(x,y) positions are (HA,DEC) in arcsec relative to map center.
Position angles are measured from the north towards the east.
.sp
The output from each option can be plotted, printed, or written
out as Miriad images of velocity-averaged maps, position-
velocity maps, or ascii spectra respectively.  Gaussian fits are
written into the log.
.sp
The task keeps user-defined lists of velocity-averaged maps,
position-velocity cuts, and spectra positions.  These lists can
be created and edited within the task, and can be passed between
the three displays.  For example, a list of spectra or position-
velocity cuts can be created with the cursor whilst displaying a
velocity-averaged map.  The lists are used to display the
spectra and position-velocity cuts, and can be written out and
read in as ascii files.
.sp
An options menu provides a choice of display style, contour
levels, and units.  Further interactive help is available within
the task.
.sp
For an interactive X windows interface, see VELPLOTC
(limited distribution)
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIin\fP
Input image name. No default.
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
The PGPLOT plotting device.
.TP
\fIregion\fP
Region of image to be plotted, e.g.
.nf
  region=relpix,box(-30,-30,20,90)(16,57)
.fi
reads in 51 x 121 pixels of image planes 16 to 57.  See help on
'region' for more details.  The default is the whole image.  The
maximum array size is set by MAXDIM in 'velplot.h' If the array
is larger than memory, then VELPLOT may run slowly.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
The output log file. The default filename is velplot.log
Results from image analysis are written into the log file.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.11, 2011/10/27 04:18:03 UTC
