.TH wbplt 1
.SH NAME
wbplt - WBPLT is a program used to analyse wbcorr data.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
lss
.SH CATEGORIES
uv analysis, plotting
.SH DESCRIPTION
WBPLT is a program used to analyse wbcorr data.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIvis\fP
The input visibility datasets. Several datasets can be given.
.TP
\fIselect\fP
Standard visibility selection. See help on "select" for more
information.
.TP
\fIstokes\fP
Normal Stokes/polarization selection. The default is to process all
parallel-hand polarisation.
.TP
\fIinc\fP
Visibility increment (default is 1)
.TP
\fIchans\fP
A pair of values giving the range of channels to be plotted.
.TP
\fIcalfile\fP
wbcorr lag-based calibration file.
.TP
\fIbpfile\fP
wbcorr frequency-based calibration file.
.TP
\fIcalfac\fP
Factor to convert flux scale to Jy. Applied in addition to any
calibration tables. Default = 1.0
.TP
\fIxrange\fP
X-axis range for plot. The default is to self-scale. The units
are Jy for flux density, hrs for time ,and RA and degrees for DEC
and phase.
.TP
\fIyrange\fP
Y-axis range for plot. The default is to self-scale. The units
are Jy for flux density, hrs for time, and RA and degrees for DEC
and phase.
.TP
\fIaxis\fP
For plotting. Two values (minimum match active), one for each
of the x and y axes chosen from:
.nf
 time                     [DD HH MM SS.S format]
 amplitude, real, imag    [natural units; Jy]
 phase                    [degrees]
 closure                  [degrees] - needs 3 baselines
 triple                   [natural units; Jy] - needs 3 baselines
 ra                       [HH MM SS.S format]
 dec                      [DD MM SS.S format]
 lst                      [HH MM SS.S format]
 hangle                   [HH MM SS.S format]
 systemp1 (geometric mean systemp - IF1 all antennas) [Jy]
 systemp2 (geometric mean systemp - IF2 all antennas) [Jy]
.fi
Defaults are axis=time,amp  (x and y axes).
.TP
\fIdevice\fP
Standard PGPLOT device. See the help on "device" for more information.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
Write ascii data to this log file. Format is specified in comment
line. Maximum 9 channels. Default is no output file.
.TP
\fIlags\fP
A pair of values giving the range of lags to be plotted if
options=dofft. There are 2n-2 lag channels starting at 0 and
ending at 2n-3.
.TP
\fImask\fP
Don't plot a value if the amplitude (not necessarly the yaxis) is
within this pair of values.
.TP
\fIoptions\fP
nocal     Do not perform gain calibration.
nopol     Do not perform polarisation calibration on the data.
nopass    Do not perform bandpass calibration on the data.
relax     Plots flagged data (only works if data not averaged in
.nf
          frequency with the line parameter) or data without
          valid positions.
.fi
stats     Calculate some rudimentary statistics on y-values
dtrack    Switch on delay tracking for beam centre (i.e. non-
.nf
          meridian scans). wbcorr only!
.fi
dofft     Transform frequency channels into lag channels before
.nf
          plotting. All frequency channels should be read in
          (NB. lag spectrum is a real quantity)
.fi
lagwt     For options=dofft or if calfile is set, this applies
.nf
          a triangular weight function to the lag domain
.fi
flag0     Filter on channel 0 for wbcorr data
avall     Average all frequency channels
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.3, 2010/04/30 08:23:28 UTC
