.TH zeefake 1
.SH NAME
zeefake - Generate fake Zeeman data.
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
nebk
.SH CATEGORIES
profile analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
ZEEFAKE is a MIRIAD program to generate fake I and V cubes with
Zeeman splitting.  Zero velocity is put at the centre of the
band and image.  The cubes are output in VXY order ready for the
ZEESTAT program.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIiout\fP
The output Stokes I cube. No default.
.sp
.TP
\fIiuout\fP
The output Stokes I cube in the case of no splitting.  Default
is not to write this cube out.
.sp
.TP
\fIvout\fP
The output Stokes V cube.  No default.
.sp
.TP
\fIimsize\fP
The output cube sizes, all three dimensions required (VXY).
.sp
.TP
\fIvinc\fP
The velocity increment along the cubes in km/s.  No default.
.sp
.TP
\fIdelv\fP
The Zeeman splitting (separation of split lines) in km/s.
B < 0 if DELV > 0.  No default.
.sp
.TP
\fIfwhm\fP
The FWHM of the Gaussian line profile in km/s.  No default.
.sp
.TP
\fIgrvc\fP
The velocity increment of the line centre in the x-direction
per pixel (km/s).  Makes a linear ramp across the source.
.sp
.TP
\fIgrint\fP
Intensity increment in the x direction per pixel.  Makes
a triangular weighting function.  Peak response is 1.0.
.sp
.TP
\fIgrfwhm\fP
FWHM increment in the x direction per pixel.  Makes
a linear ramp across the source.
.sp
.TP
\fIgrsplit\fP
Splitting increment in the x direction.  Makes a linear ramp
across the source.
.sp
.TP
\fItheta\fP
The angle of the magnetic field to the line-of-sight in degrees.
No default.
.sp
.TP
\fInoise\fP
The RMS noise to be added to the RR and LL responses.  Note that
the peak RR or LL response in this program is 1.0 for theta=0.
.sp
.TP
\fIrestfreq\fP
Line rest frequency in GHz.
.sp
.TP
\fItype\fP
The line type - "e" for emission (default), "a" for absorption.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.7, 2013/08/30 01:49:21 UTC
