.TH zeemap 1
.SH NAME
zeemap - Map the magnetic field from I and V cubes
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
nebk
.SH CATEGORIES
profile analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
ZEEMAP tries to find the line-of-sight magnetic field splitting
a transition by measuring the shift in the line owing to the
Zeeman effect.
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIiin\fP
Stokes I spectral cube with channel on the first axis.
.TP
\fIvin\fP
Stokes V spectral cube with channel on the first axis.
.TP
\fIb\fP
Output file name for line-of-sight magnetic field.
.TP
\fId\fP
Output file name for the derivative of I/2 spectrum (op=div
only).
.TP
\fIbe\fP
Output file name for the error in B (op=div only).
.TP
\fIg\fP
Output file name for amount of residual I found in V (op=fit
only).
.TP
\fIblc\fP
Bottom left corner of box to be fit.
.TP
\fItrc\fP
Top right corner of box to be fit.
.TP
\fIfreq\fP
Frequency of line in GHz, used to determine amount of splitting
per Gauss.
.TP
\fIop\fP
Operation code that controls how the line shift is determined -
.nf
  div: by dividing V by the derivative of I/2, or
  fit: by fitting of the derivative of I and I to V.
.TP
\fIcutoff\fP
.fi
For op="div", the division will not be performed unless the
derivative of I/2 is greater than cutoff.
For op="fit", the fit will not be performed unless one or more
channels in the I spectrum is larger in absolute value than
cutoff.
.TP
\fIvrms\fP
RMS deviation in V spectrum in a signal free area.  This can
be obtained using histo.  Used for calculating error in B
for op=div.
.TP
\fImode\fP
This determines the algorithms used, if operation="fit". It
can consist of several flags:
.nf
 l  Include leakage term,
 2  Use 2 sided derivative approximation,
 m  Use maximum likelihood technique,
 x  Perform extra checks for better solutions, when
    using the maximum likelihood technique.
.fi
Default mode=2m.
.TP
\fIy corlen\fP
Correlation length.  Selected window must be divisible by this
number, which is the number of pixels over which you think the
magnetic field might be constant.  Default is 1, try maybe 2
or 4.
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.4, 2010/11/22 05:06:16 UTC
