.TH zeestat 1
.SH NAME
zeestat - Fits Zeeman parameters to I and V cubes
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
nebk
.SH CATEGORIES
model fitting
.SH DESCRIPTION
ZEESTAT is a Miriad task that fits Zeeman parameters to a region of
input I and V cubes. Zeestat also analyses the noise correlations
to determine a factor used in correcting the sigma estimates.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIiin\fP
Input I cube in vxy order. Wild card expansion is supported. No default.
.TP
\fIvin\fP
Input V cube in vxy order. Wild card expansion is supported. No default.
.TP
\fIbeam\fP
The beam of the observation. This is used in determining the sigma
correction factor. The default is a delta function. You should
give the beam if you want an accurate estimate of sigma.
Wild card expansion is supported.
.TP
\fIrho\fP
The channel-to-channel correlation coefficient. This is used in
determining the sigma correction factor. The default is 0.
.TP
\fIfreq\fP
Frequency (GHz) of splitting. No default.
.TP
\fImode\fP
This is a character string that determines the algorithm used in the
fitting process. It consists of several flags, which can be:
.nf
  m Use maximum likelihood technique.
  l Include a leakage term in the fitting.
  2 Use a two sided derivative estimate.
  x Perform extra checks for better solutions when using the maximum
    likelihood technique.
.fi
The default is ' ' i.e., least squares and 1.
.TP
\fIaveop\fP
If 'a' then the spectra specified by the spatial window are
averaged before being passed to the fitting routine.  Otherwise,
and by default, all spectra are passed to the fitting routine
and "spatial summing" (as defined by SKLZ) is performed.
.TP
\fIchan\fP
Channel range. Default is all channels.
.TP
\fIblc\fP
Bottom left corner of spatial region to examine. Default is (1,1).
.TP
\fItrc\fP
Top right corner of spatial region to examine. Default is all
of image.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
This is the name of an output logfile, which shows how the error
estimate varies with the alpha parameter.
.TP
\fIout\fP
Output results to this file as well as screen
