.TH zeesim 1
.SH NAME
zeesim - Test reliability of Zeeman splitting errors
.SH PERSON RESPONSIBLE
nebk
.SH CATEGORIES
profile analysis
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.nf
  Estimate the reliability of Zeeman error estimates for spatial
  summing or averaging.    This is generally essential for spatial
  summing, and possibly needed for spatial averaging when eta is
  of the order of unity.
.fi
.sp
.nf
  Program in four logical sections
  1)  Read in data
  2)  Fit data and get estimates of noise free spectra
  3)  Find the FFT of the beam
  4)  Simulate by adding correlated noise and refitting
.fi
.sp
.sp
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fIiin\fP
.nf
       Input I cube (vxy order). Wild card expansion supported.
       No default.
.TP
\fIvin\fP
       Input V cube (vxy order). Wild card expansion supported.
       No default.
.TP
\fIbeam\fP
       The beam of the observation.  Wild card expansion supported.
       Not needed for AVEOP='a'
.TP
\fImode\fP
       This is a character string that determines the algorithm used
       in the fitting process. It consists of several flags, which
       can be:
         m Use maximum likelihood technique.
         l Include a leakage term in the fitting.
         2 Use a two sided derivative estimate.
         x Perform extra checks for better solutions when using the
           maximum likelihood technique.
         d Debiased least squares estimate.
       The default is ' ' i.e., least squares and 1.
.TP
\fIaveop\fP
       'a' for averaged spectrum in window, 's' for summed spectra.
       Summed computational load is orders of magnitude greater than
       for averaged spectra.  'h' for hybrid of averaging and summing.
       Default is 'a'.  The hybrid is the same as 's', except when
       fitting the simulated spectra, whereupon the spectra are first
       averaged for each window.
.TP
\fIchan\fP
       Channel range. Default is all channels.
.TP
\fIfreq\fP
       Frequency (GHz) for conversion of channel splitting to B field.
.TP
\fIblc\fP
       Bottom left corner of spatial region to examine.
       Default is (1,1).
.TP
\fItrc\fP
       Top right corner of spatial region to examine.
       Default is all of image.
.TP
\fIbin\fP
       Binning widths for all three (v,x,y) dimensions. Default = 1.
       This keyword enables each region (spectral and spatial) to be
       binned up before fitting.  It's as if you had observed with
       lower resolution.  Spatial binning is of no use if you are using
       spatial averaging.
.TP
\fIsplit\fP
       Splitting (split to unsplit in channels) to use for calculation
       of hatV and all simulation (i.e., don't use actual splitting as
       predicted by fitting algorithm when generating V spectra.
.TP
\fInruns\fP
       The number of simulation runs to undertake.   If 0, then just
       the initial fits are done.  Default is 0.
.TP
\fIinfile\fP
       File containing a list of windows.  If this file specified,
       blc and trc are ignored.  Should be in format:
         NWIN
         I XCEN YCEN XOFF YOFF
       And there are nwin of these lines.  XOFF and YOFF define the
       box half-sizes from their specified centres, XCEN and YCEN.
       You can leave off XOFF and YOFF and they will default to 2
       All units are pixels.
.TP
\fIlog\fP
       If NRUNS = 0
         One value which is a root file name, appended to which is
         the box number as specified in the INFILE (or = 1 for
         a box specified with BLC and TRC).   These files contain
         the fitted results for each window.   The files are opened
         in APPEND mode.
.fi
.sp
.nf
       If NRUNS > 0
         Two values.  The first is a root file name, appended to which
         is the box number as specified in the INFILE (or = 1 for
         a box specified with BLC and TRC).   These files contain the
         results for each simulation with a cumulative fiddle factor
         worked out.  The first line is the initially fit results
         before simulation.
         The second value is a file containing a statistical summary
         of the final results of the simulations from all windows,
         including the initially fit results before simulation began.
.TP
\fInran\fP
       Throw away NRAN random numbers before starting.  Use this to
       continue a set of simulations with different random numbers.
.fi
.sp
.SH REVISION
1.3, 2011/10/05 06:24:26 UTC
